 worsen with leg elevation and many patients wake up in the middle of the

36

due the pain. They often state the pain improves by dangling their affected limb over
the side of their bed, which leads to better blood fow to the foot thanks to gravity.
 Tissue loss is often present in the form of a nonhealing wound, ulcer, or gangrene anywhere along the toes, foot, or lower leg. It is imperative you determine how long the
tissue loss has been present and if it has been improving. Often, patients with CLTI have
multiple levels of arterial disease and are at a much higher risk of amputation compared
to patients with simple claudication.

Physical Exam of the Arterial System
The arterial system is extensive, and a proper vascular exam should include the entire arterial
system.
The exam starts with the nurse checking the vital signs and bilateral upper extremity blood
pressures. A difference of > 10 mmHg between the upper extremities may indicate significant
hemodynamic stenosis.
Ĺ Key Notes
Arterial Bruit: Normal arterial fow is laminar and therefore silent. However, when
blood fow becomes turbulent it can often be heard (bruit) or palpated (thrill). Although
murmur and bruit are synonymous, audible turbulence originating from the heart is called
a murmur. Outside of the heart, audible turbulence is referred to as a bruit. The presence
of a bruit does not necessarily indicate significant arterial stenosis.
Pulses are described as:






0 or absent
1+ or diminished
2+ or normal
3+ or prominent or aneurysmal.
4+ or bounding or aneurysmal.

In patients with weak pulses, the examiner must take care not to confuse the patient’s
pulse with involuntary muscle twitches or their own pulse.
When a pulse is not palpated, a Doppler probe is used to assess the blood fow. The
doppler signal can be triphasic, or biphasic, or monophasic.
Doppler Signals:
 Triphasic and biphasic doppler signals indicate good blood fow.

37

 Monophasic signal correlates with moderate to severe decrease in arterial blood
fow.
 In severe ischemia, a soft continuous venous signal may be all that is heard.
Listen to examples of Doppler