 exposure. A lead apron alone and or lead glasses alone is
inadequate for optimal protection making answers b, c, and d incorrect. A full-face
shield will be of greater protection than glasses which makes answer e incorrect.
2. A 25 year old medical student has been invited to observe endovascular stent placement
for an infrarenal AAA. In addition to wearing appropriate PPE, what can the medical
student do to reduce their exposure during the case?
A. Stand as close to the radiation source as possible.
B. Turn their back to the radiation source.

211

C. Stand as far from the radiation source as possible.
D. Wear a radiation badge.
Answer
C. Stand as far from the radiation source as possible.
Discussion: Increasing one’s distance from the radiation source is a key measure to to
reduce radiation exposure. Radiation exposure decreases as the distance from the source
increases. This phenomenon follows an inverse square law (1/d^2). Standing close to
the source will increase their radiation dose making answer a incorrect. If wearing a lead
smock, turning one’s back to the radiation source will render the PPE useless. If wearing
a leaded vest and skirt, turning one’s back has no effect. Wearing a radiation badge is
beneficial for long-term monitoring of radiation exposure but does not affect the amount
of radiation exposure.
3. A 55 year old vascular surgeon who has been practicing for 20 years has noticed some
subtle changes in his vision. What is the most likely underlying disease process?
A. Optical neuropathy
B. Glaucoma
C. Opacification of the lens
D. Retinal angiopathy
Answer
C. Opacification of the lens
Discussion: The lens is the most radiosensitive componenet of the eye. Lens opacification
(i.e. cataracts) is the most common adverse effect of radiation exposure to the eye. There
was no mention of increased intraocular pressure or abnormal fundoscopic exam making
answers a, b, and d incorrect.
4. A 65 year old female is presenting to the hospital for endovascular repair of a complicated
AAA. There is prolonged radiation time with a calculated absorbed dose of 3.5 Gy. What
is the most likely skin exam finding during the patient’s hospital course?
A. Skin necrosis
