30mmHg or 30 mmHg below the patient’s diastolic blood pressure suggests a high likelihood
of compartment syndrome particularly if your clinical suspicion is high. It is important to
release all four lower leg compartments during fasciotomy.

Figure 1: The four compartments of the lower leg.
There are several techniques to release the anterior and lateral compartments. The common
techniques include making a 4 to 6 cm incision on the lateral aspect of the tibia between the
fibula and the crest of the tibia. A plane is then developed between the skin and underlying
fascia, which is then incised and released. The posterior compartment release involves making
vertical incisions behind the posteromedial edge of the tibia. The great saphenous vein and
the saphenous nerve are identified and protected during the posterior compartment release. A

143

Figure 2: Fascial compartments and muscle groups of the lower leg compartments; Red = Anterior, Blue = Lateral, Pink Superficial Posterior, Green = Deep Posterior; published
by Polygon data from Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS) and BodyParts3D;
shared under a Creative Commons license.

144

plane is again developed between the skin and fascia and the fascia is incised to release the
compartment. The tibial attachments of the soleus are taken down in order to expose the deep
posterior compartment, after which the fascia overlying the fexor digitorum logus is incised
to release the deep posterior compartment.
Ď Tip
Watch a video of a four-compartment fasciotomy here:
Ď Tip
The contents of each compartment are often questioned and students should be familiar
with the organization fo the lower limb.
Compartment

Muscles

Neurovascular structures

Anterior

tibialis anterior, extensor hallucis
longus, extensor digitorum longus,
peroneus tertius
peroneus longus, peroneus brevis

deep peroneal nerve,
anterior tibial vessels
(artery and vein)
superficial peroneal nerve,
peroneal artery
sural nerve
tibial nerve, posterior
tibial vessels (artery and
vein)

Lateral
Superficial Posterior
Deep Posterior

gastro