urcation where the common femoral artery divides
into the superficial femoral artery and profunda. Patients who have acute limb ischemia due
to embolic sources typically have severe symptoms due to lack of collateral development (N.B.
collateralization is a common finding in patients with chronic limb ischemia).
Embolic events can typically be categorized into those that come from cardiac and those that
come from noncardiac sources.
The most common etiology of cardiac emboli is atrial fibrillation, a condition that causes
uncoordinated contractions of the atrium leading to stasis of blood and clot formation (typically
in the left atrial appendage) which can then embolize. Other common cardiac sources include,
but are not limited to, left ventricular aneurysms, mural thrombi in the ventricles, endocarditis,
and valvular disease.
Non-cardiac embolism can be caused by atheroembolism, which typically occurs in patients
with a history of atherosclerotic disease in arteries such as the aortic arch or descending thoracic
artery. This occurs when fragments of plaque or thrombus detach from the walls of the affected
arteries and travel through the arterial system similar to a cardiac emboli. These cases may
be spontaneous or secondary to intraarterial wire or catheter manipulation. Finally, patients
with hypercoagulable conditions may develop an aortic mural thrombus that can embolize to
a limb.

Thrombosis
Thrombosis, the formation of a blood clot within an artery, can be due to various causes with
rupture of a plaque being the most common. In the case of atherosclerosis, an acute arterial
occlusion develops on a severe stenotic lesion. Symptoms of ALI in this case are less severe
and more progressive in nature than symptoms caused by emboli as the body has had ample
time to develop a robust collateral circulation. Vasospasm due to secondary Raynaud’s disease
can result in digital ischemia and requires timely diagnosis and treatment with anticoagulation, thrombolytics, vasodilators, or prostanoids. Thrombosis within a vessel can also be due
to a hypercoagulable state. This is usually in the case of malignant disease which leads to
venous thrombosis but can also be due to hepar