 (2.6% in women and 1.9% in men) is affected by more advanced stages
of the disease including chronic, non-healing venous ulcers (Sidawy and Perler 2023d).
Socioeconomic factors also play a role in disease incidence and progression; patients without
health insurance are 2.6 times more likely to have venous ulcers compared to insured patients

157

(Scott et al. 1995a). Furthermore, disadvantaged populations have increased rates of recurrent
ulceration as well as delayed healing times. This is explained in part by the high cost of
treatment for patients with CVI, though delayed treatment of advanced disease ultimately
results in a greater overall cost burden (Y. Kim et al. 2021a).
When CVI progresses to its advanced stages and wounds develop it can negatively impact a
patient’s quality of life. It also creates an economic burden to society; not only are the direct
healthcare costs high, but the severe symptoms and wounds from CVI can affect one’s ability to
contribute to the workforce. A review from 2019 estimated the global market for the treatment
of varicose veins alone will increase by approximately 35% in 2021 when compared to 2016,
increasing from $290.59 million to $396 million (Davies 2019a). Meanwhile, the management
of venous ulcers in the United States has an estimated annual healthcare cost between $1.9 and
$3 billion, with the greatest cost burden on the Medicare system (Sidawy and Perler 2023d).
Venous disease represents a unique challenge to our healthcare system, negatively affecting
the quality of life and overall health of a large portion of the population. Recognizing the
early signs of CVD and implementing timely interventions can drastically improve patient
outcomes. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that physicians and healthcare providers
in all specialties are familiar with venous disease, so that it can be recognized and treated in
its earlier stages.

Etiology
The peripheral venous system uses valves within the veins to prevent retrograde fow. Skeletal
muscle contractions serve to pump blood forward, allowing travel against gravity and return
to the heart. Patent veins,