 the catheter, and then manually pulled back towards an arteriotomy and the clot
then removed.(Karnabatidis et al. 2011)

Fistulograms
A fistulogram is an angiographic study used to interrogate and troubleshoot a disfunctional
arteriovenous fistula.
Common complications of fistulas include:
 Anastomotic strictures.

199

 Infow issues (such as atherosclerosis of the infow artery).
 Outfow issues (such as central venous stenosis).
 Thrombosed fistula.
Access is obtained in different locations depending on the culprit lesions (the infow artery, the
fistula itself, the outfow veins) and can be treated with angioplasty and or stenting.

Risks
As with any invasive procedure, even a minimally invasive procedure comes with its own set
of risks, and as the complexity of the procedure increases so does the risk.
The American Heart Association has put out guidelines to help stratify patients at risk for
vascular complications.(Patel et al. 2010a)
Low risk cases were defined as those with a complication rate below 1%. Characteristics
include:


Diagnostic angiograms without interventions.
Short operative times.
Small sheaths (5 Fr).
Minimal anticoagulation.
Younger male patients with larger body habitus and normal renal function were at lowest
risk of complications.

Moderate risk cases were defined as those with a complication rate of 1-3%. Risk factors
include:
 Longer, more complex procedures.
 Involve larger sheaths (6-7Fr).
High risk cases were defined as those with a complication rate >3%. Risk factors include:

Peripheral arterial disease patients
Advanced age
Female sex at birth
Liver disease
Coagulopathy
Immunosuppression
Status post valve replacement
Renal dysfunction.
Longer procedure times

200

 Larger sheaths (>8Fr), use of arterial closure devices
 More likely to involve anticoagulation

Access Complications
Although each procedure comes with its own specific risks (e.g. stroke for a carotid artery stent,
distal embolization for atherectomy etc), there are multiple complications that can occur with
any endovascular procedure. The procedure specific complications will be explored in further
detail in each chapter. Common access complications are listed below.
Groin Hemat