opliteal, tibial vessels (i.e. the
tibial trunk, anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal arteries).

115

Ď Tip
Here is an image that demonstrates the various peripheral vessels that can be diseased
and occluded in a patient with CLTI.
Risk factors for CLTI are the same as for PAD and include advanced age, race (with nonhispanic blacks having the highest risk), male gender, smoking, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia,
hypertension, and renal insuﬀciency. It is important to note that any other etiologies including
venous, traumatic, embolic, or nonatherosclerotic disease processes are NOT considered a part
of chronic limb-threatening ischemia.
Ĺ Note
For a more comprehensive review of lower limb arterial anatomy and PAD risk factors,
please see ?@sec-claudication.

Diagnostics and Imaging
The diagnosis of CLTI requires a prior diagnosis of PAD in association with ischemic rest pain
or tissue loss. Pain should be present for more than two weeks and associated with at least
one abnormal hemodynamic parameter.
A complete evaluation of patients with CLTI should include:
1. A good patient history
2. Physical examination
3. Noninvasive hemodynamic tests
 Ankle-Brachial Index (ABI) and Pulse Volume Recording (PVR)
 Arterial Doppler Ultrasound
4. Angiography
 CTA (abd + pelvis + lower extremity with triple vessel runoff)
 If necessary, invasive angiography


Patient History
 Patients may state that they have persistent pain in their legs, even at rest.
 Rest pain and nonhealing wounds are highly indicative of CLTI.
 Patients may also share experiencing rest pain in bed relieved by dangling their feet off
the side of their bed. By dangling their feet over the side of the bed, gravity increases
blood fow through diseased and collateral vessels thereby reducing ischemia and pain.

Physical Exam
Common physical exam findings on the lower extremities include:
 Cyanosis
 Cool Extremities
 Hair loss
 Dry skin
 Muscle atrophy
 Dystrophic toenails (thick toenails)
 Capillary refill > 5 seconds
 Non-palpable distal pulses
 Non-healing wounds

Non-invasive Hemodynamic Testing
In terms of non-invasive testing, as stated above, a combination