 ischemic colitis. Late Infection of the graft is possible, is challenging to manage,
and occurs in less than 1% of patients.

Surveillance
The Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines suggest that for patients found to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm, surveillance imaging should occur at intervals specific to the maximum
diameter of their aneurysm.
 For patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms between 3.0 and 3.9cm in diameter, CT
or ultrasound should be undertaken every 3 years.
 Patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms between 4.0 and 4.9cm in diameter, imaging
is indicated every 12 months.
 When the aneurysm reaches a maximum diameter of 5.0 cm, imaging with CT is recommended at intervals of every 6 months.
After the abdominal aortic aneurysm has been repaired, ongoing surveillance is warranted to
monitor for post-repair complications and the need for reintervention. As mentioned, endovascular repairs can develop endoleaks over time, which may necessitate another intervention if

80

the aneurysm sac is expanding. Therefore, patients who have undergone EVAR should undergo CTA at one month and 12 months post-operatively. A six-month scan is indicated in
the presence of a persistent endoleak observed on the one-month scan. If the endograft is in
a good position without complications, yearly interval follow-up with concomitant imaging is
warranted. Open repairs can similarly develop problems that require repair, albeit with less
frequency, and hence need surveillance imaging every five years.

Teaching Case
Scenario
A 73-year-old male with a history of atrial fibrillation, diabetes, hypertension, ongoing tobacco
use, hyperlipidemia, chronic kidney disease, and peripheral arterial disease undergoes a screening ultrasound of the abdominal aorta. The ultrasound shows a 5.6cm infrarenal fusiform
aortic aneurysm extending into the proximal common iliac arteries. His primary care physician refers him to the vascular surgery clinic, where he presents without subjective complaints.
CTA is recommended to assess the patient’s anatomy.

Exam
HEENT: No carotid bruits.
Cardiac: Irregularly irregular, no murmurs.
Pulmonary: Clear to auscultation in all lung fields.
Abdom