 vessel manipulation and/or clamping embolizes
into the ECA where it could cause extracranial ischemia rather than the ICA where it
could cause intracranial ischemia (i.e. ischemic stroke). A useful mnemonic to remember

52

the clamping order is ICE for ICA, CCA, and ECA. The order when unclamping is the
opposite, ECI. The rational is similar. By unclamping the ECA first, remaining debris
or debris loosened during removal of the clamps will fow up the ECA rather than the
ICA. By unclamping the CCA second, and dislodged debris will fow down the open ECA
rather than the ICA. The ICA is unclamped last. Options A and B are dangerous as they
do not minimize the risk of embolus fowing into the ICA. Option C is simply incorrect.

Introduction
Hemispheric stroke related to carotid artery stenosis is a leading cause of both disability and
death in the United States. Underlying etiologies for stroke include occlusive or hemorrhagic
events with roughly 80% being related to occlusive pathology through embolus or in-situ
thrombosis, the remaining 20% attributable to hemorrhage. Roughly 15% of stroke victims
have a transient ischemic attack (TIA) that fully resolved prior to a later stroke event. Risk
factors for carotid plaque formation are related to age, smoking, coronary artery disease,
diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension and family history of stroke. Due to carotid bulb
anatomy, the most common area of plaque formation is within the proximal internal carotid
artery. As plaque stenosis increases over time, the systolic velocity increases to maintain
fow volumes which intensifies shear stress. This shear stress increases likelihood of plaque
rupture, platelet aggregation and thromboembolization. There are multiple seminal studies
that describe cohort comparisons of asymptomatic and symptomatic carotid artery stenosis
with outcomes related to optimal medical management alone or as adjunct to surgical repair.
Symptomatic carotid stenosis is described as carotid stenosis >50% with unilateral stroke, TIA
or amaurosis fugax on