/rotational
forces to clear a thrombus. The procedural steps are similar to catheter-directed thrombolysis
in terms of percutaneous access and cannulation of the target vessel. This procedure utilizes
an aspiration mechanical thrombectomy catheter to simultaneously provide fragmentation and
aspiration to restore arterial fow.
Pharmacomechanical thrombectomy is a very similar concept as mechanical thrombectomy. In addition to mechanical clot extraction, it applies thrombolytic therapy with a lytic
agent . The advantage of this therapy in comparison to catheter directed thrombolysis is the
decreased lytic dose and duration of thrombolysis required.
Other
In severe cases of ALI where irreversible tissue damage is obvious such as in patients with
Rutherford III classification, primary amputation may be the most viable treatment option.
With irreversible neurovascular damage and tissue necrosis, primary amputation serves to
prevent further spread of tissue damage and infection.

141

Post-Operative Complications & Management
The major postoperative complications of ALI are systemic end organ insults from sequelae of
ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury. Reperfusion resulting in rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinuria, and

142

compartment syndrome must be monitored for. Baseline and surveillance creatine phosphokinase as well as surveillance for electrolyte abnormalities, acid base abnormalities, and urine
abnormalities including hemoglobinuria, myoglobinuria, and oliguria should be performed.

Four Compartment Fasciotomy
Prophylactic decompression fasciotomy is recommended in cases with greater than 6 hours of
ischemia time and/or in patients with sensory and/or motor deficits. Compartment syndrome
is largely a clinical diagnosis however, you can also utilize a Stryker needle as a diagnostic
tool and objectively measure compartment pressures. Typically, intracompartmental pressure
> 30mmHg or 30 mmHg below the patient’s diastolic blood pressure suggests a high likelihood
of compartment syndrome particularly if your clinical suspicion is high. It is important to
release all four lower leg compartments during fasciotomy.

Figure 1: The four compartments of the lower leg.
There are several techniques to release the anterior and lateral compartments. The common
techniques include making a 4 to 6 cm incision on the lateral aspect of the t