ency (LBP) following endovascular intervention. This information is
extremely informative when planning a surgical intervention.
 To perform GLASS staging, the surgeon must obtain high quality imaging of the lower
extremity to score the length and burden of disease femoropopliteal segment (FP) and
infrapopliteal segment (IP).

The Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Concensus (TASC classication)
In 2000, a group of fourteen societies from North America and Europe representing a variety
of disciplines including vascular surgery, internal medicine, interventional radiology, and cardiology convened to create a consensus in the classification and treatment of patients with
peripheral artery disease (i.e. intermittend claudication, acute limb ischemia, and chronic limb
ischemia).
The Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) document focuses on individual arterial
segments and classifies lesions into one of four large groups (TASC A through TASC D) according to the pattern of disease. Recommendations are then offered according to TASC
Classification.
Ĺ Note
Please see these depictions of the TASC classification system: Image 1 & Image 2.
 TASC A lesions are those that should have excellent results from endovascular management alone.
 TASC B lesions are those that should have good results from endovascular management
and endovascular interventions should be the first option offered to the patient.

122

 TASC C lesions are those that have better long-term results with open surgical management. Endovascular techniques should be reserved for patients who are poor surgical
candidates.
 TASC D lesions are those that should be treated by open surgery.
Important caveats: - Developments in endovascular techniques and devices since the introduction of the TASC document have increased the role of endovascular surgery in treating TASC
C and TASC D lesions.
 Many patients with CLTI present with multisegment disease thereby complicating the
clinical decision-making usefulness of TASC recommendations. TASC is more reasonably
useful for assessing lesion-specific device performance.
The consensus was updated in 2007 (TASC II) and included representatives from Australia,
South Africa, and Japan.

Treatment
Treatment of CLTI includes conservative management and invasive intervention. Lifestyle
modification is recommended and highly encouraged and includes smoking cessation, regular
exercise, and a healthy diet to reduce cardiovascular