 other reasons. (Baril et al. 2013)
 In a single institutional retrospective study, the 5-year freedom from re-intervention rate
was 89.2%. The survival rates at 1, 3, and 5 years were 87.9%, 75.2%, and 60.6%,
respectively. (Eliason et al. 2003)

Surveillance
Medical surveillance following ALI discharge
After bypass or catheter based intervention, patients should resume their preoperative medications for angina, hypertension, arrhythmia, and congestive heart failure. Antiplatelet therapy
is commonly utilized postoperatively and anticoagulation may be considered in addition to antiplatelet therapy based on patient specific factors such as etiology of clot, graft characteristics,
and comorbidities.

Clinical and vascular laboratory surveillance following ALI discharge
Patients undergoing bypass due to ALI can follow SVS guidelines for vein grafts. (Zierler et
al. 2018a)
 Early postoperative baseline arterial duplex ultrasound, ABI/PVR, clinical examination
with follow up at 3, 6, 12 months, and annually after.
 More frequent surveillance may be considered for individuals with abnormalities on DUS
The SVS does not have standard surveillance guidelines for patients undergoing catheter based
intervention for ALI.

146

Teaching Case
Scenario
A 73-year-old woman with a past medical history of HTN, HLD, Type 2 Diabetes, and Atrial
Fibrillation (on xarelto) presents to the emergency department with severe right lower extremity pain. She states she has had this severe pain for 2 days which has progressed to the point
of where it limits her mobility. She says she has tried over the counter pain medication as
well as gabapentin but nothing has resolved the pain. The patient recently had a left knee
replacement surgery 10 days ago. Post procedure, the patient was confused about when to
resume her xarelto and as such has not been taking it.
Family Hx: Diabetes, HLD, Factor V Leiden Social Hx: Former smoker (1 pack per day for
15 years) Surgical Hx: Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy, Vaginal Hysterectomy, Left Total Knee
Replacement

Exam
