 used to evaluate carotid artery stenosis with the lowest
cost option being color fow duplex ultrasound (DSA) that allows a physician to determine
peak systolic and end diastolic velocities throughout the carotid bifurcation. Based on the
internally validated vascular laboratory criteria of the institution, these velocities can be correlated to ranges of degree of stenosis, with high grade stenosis defined as >70-80%. Since
the modality is based primarily on velocity range, it cannot give exact stenosis such as 66%.
The modality can also provide adjunct information about the blood fow waveforms in each
arterial segment, as well as whether that fow is laminar or turbulent with utilization of color
fow imaging. Limitations of this imaging include technician skill, inability to obtain optimal
angle of Doppler interrogation for velocity determination, shadowing from heavily calcified
lesions, poor visualization due to patient habitus and tortuosity.
Axial imaging options include both computed tomography angiogram (CTA) and magnetic
resonance angiogram (MRA). Both of these options require some form of intra-arterial contrast,
either iodinated contrast or gadolinium, respectively. However, they offer a fuller perspective
of relevant anatomy and a more precise determination of stenosis within the limitations of the
modality, with MRA often overestimating the degree of stenosis due to intrinsic properties of
MRA imaging acquisition. Both CTA and MRA, although superior to DSA in determination
of exact degree of plaque stenosis and arterial anatomy, sacrifice the physiologic information
offered through DSA that speak to fow patterns, fow direction and turbulence. Axial imaging
of CTA and MRA can define patency but do not speak to the dynamic nature of blood fow
or directionality of fow.
Definitive determination of fow and directionality can be augmented to a carotid artery stenosis workup by diagnostic angiography. This requires femoral artery access and includes contrast
administration, as well as a small risk of periprocedural embolization. However, it offers additional physiologic evaluation that might not be present in DSA and that is inherently lacking
in CTA and MRA studies.

54

Asymptomatic Carotid Atery Sten