 (EVAR), and thrombectomy and thrombolysis. There are a number of basics that trainees should know before starting one of these
procedures.

IVC Filter Placement
 An IVC Filter is a metal cage-like device placed in the IVC to prevent clots from embolizing to the pulmonary vasculature.
 The hook at the superior aspect of the filter is used to aid with retrieval.
 The struts will catch clots and will anchor into the walls of the IVC to prevent migration.
 Placement of an IVC filter can be controversial but it is commonly used to prevent
pulmonary embolism in patients who have a strict contraindication to anticoagulation.
 They are sometimes placed prophylactically in high-risk trauma patients.

Figure 6: Inferior Vena Cava Filter courtesy of scientificanimations.com. Retrieved on 30
March. Wikimedia.
Procedure:
 Access is usually obtained via the right femoral vein as it gives direct access to the IVC.
 Ultrasound should be used to confirm that there is no thrombus at the access site Access is then obtained via the Seldinger technique and a venacavogram is then obtained
to assess the anatomy and the location of the renal veins
 The filter is generally placed just below the renal veins to prevent renal vein thrombus
if filter thrombosis occurs.
 If a retrievable filter is placed, it should be removed as soon as the filter is no longer
clinically indicated.
 Filter retrieval becomes more challenging the longer the filter remains in place.

197

 Filter retrieval is generally performed through the internal jugular vein in the neck to
give access to the hook at the superior end of the filter, which can be snared and removed.
Ĺ Note
Please find a more detailed review of IVC filters here

Lower Extremity Angiogram
A lower extremity angiogram is the starting point for a vascular surgeon to perform a number
of different interventions including angioplasty, stenting, and thrombectomy. An angiogram
is a procedure in which contrast dye is used to display the vasculature and its disease burden
under X-ray.
Ď Tip
Before an angiogram, one should be aware of all prior interventions a patient has had,
both open and endovascular. It can be useful to review old operative reports and imaging
studies in order to know the patient’s current anatomy.
Ď Tip