time to develop a robust collateral circulation. Vasospasm due to secondary Raynaud’s disease
can result in digital ischemia and requires timely diagnosis and treatment with anticoagulation, thrombolytics, vasodilators, or prostanoids. Thrombosis within a vessel can also be due
to a hypercoagulable state. This is usually in the case of malignant disease which leads to
venous thrombosis but can also be due to heparin induced thrombocytopenia. Finally, vascular patients in particular may develop thrombosis from an aortic dissection or bypass graft
occlusion.

Diagnostics and Imaging
Clinical Diagnosis
The first step in the diagnosis of ALI is a thorough history and physical exam of the patient.
While taking a history, it is important to elucidate the duration and extent of symptoms,
cardiovascular risk factors, and past medical history from the patient. Furthermore, it is
crucial to establish whether the patient is taking any anticoagulant medications, and if they
are, ascertain the timing of their most recent dose.
As mentioned above in the introduction, the 6 P’s (pain, pulselessness, pallor, poikilothermia,
paresthesias, and paralysis) can be used as a guide in the diagnosis of ALI. However, symptoms
can range depending on the severity of ischemia and pre-existence of collaterals. It is important
to note that ALI presenting with less severe symptoms may be misdiagnosed as musculoskeletal
disease, sciatica, or other generalized causes of limb pain.
Physical exam findings of the affected limb are essential for diagnosis and classification with
regards to severity and need for a revascularization procedure. Extremely pale skin color in
the affected limb is a sign of total ischemia; this finding may be more diﬀcult to elicit based on
the patient’s baseline skin color. Loss of sensation and more specifically loss of fine touch and
proprioception should be evaluated. Muscle tenderness, particularly in the calf when a lower
extremity is involved indicates advanced ischemia. Finally, a vascular exam with a doppler
should be performed and can be both diagnostic and reveal the level of occlusion.
The gold standard of classifying ALI of the lower extremity and determining need for intervention is based on this combination of sensory/motor clinical