stenosis. Other imaging modalities such as a CT angiogram or invasive angiograms can also
evaluate blood fow to the lower extremities.
A hematologic evaluation (including CBC, fasting blood glucose, creatinine, fasting lipid profile and urinalysis) is recommended in order to identify any associated comorbidities such as
diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and chronic kidney disease that may also need to be addressed.
If patients have normal ABIs and pulse exams, it is important to consider other differentials
of bilateral lower extremity pain include hematologic or neurogenic claudication (pain caused
by lumbosacral nerve root impingement). Neurogenic claudication is positional, often worse
when walking downhill and and relieved by leaning forward (i.e. leaning on a walker).

Treatment
The mainstay of treatment for claudication is conservative management, including medical optimization and lifestyle modification. With regard to medical optimization, it is recommended

104

that patients start on antiplatelet therapy (Aspirin 81 mg daily) and a high dose statin. Patients without a prior history of congestive heart failure can also start on cilostozal (Pletal)
to help with pain management. Patients with prior history of hypertension and diabetes
should also be on appropriate antihypertensives to control their blood pressure and diabetes
medications to control their blood sugar levels. Lifestyle modifications include smoking cessation, exercise training to develop collateral vessels, and diet modification to lower cholesterol
intake. An appropriate exercise regimen is defined by at least 30 minutes of supervised ambulation/exercise at least 3 times per week. Patients should be followed closely with yearly ABIs
by both Primary Care Physicians (PCPs) and Vascular Surgeons for progression of disease.
Below is an outline of appropriate treatment options for claudication:

Supervised Exercise Regimen
Goal of at least 30 minutes of supervised walking exercise (at least 3 times a week)

Optimization of cardiovascular risk factors:
Hypertension - Use of antihypertensive medications - Identify any underlying etiology of
hypertension (ie renal artery stenosis, stressors)
Hyperlipidemia - Control of cholesterol levels - Diet/exercise modification - Use of medications: i.e. statins, anti-platelet agents
Diabetes mellitus - Control of blood glucose levels - Diet/ex