 can be the site of significant
pathology. Aneurysms, which are common pathology in both the thoracic and abdominal aorta,
are defined by an increase in arterial diameter to 1.5 times the normal diameter of the vessel. As

69

the diameter of the aortic aneurysm increases, the risk of rupture increases in direct proportion.
For example, a patient with a 4cm abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) has an approximate 1year rupture risk of 1%; a patient with a 5.5cm aneurysm has up to a 10% 1-year rupture risk.
With the widespread use of cross-sectional imaging, many aortic aneurysms are discovered
incidentally. Others are found on screening exams. The US Preventative Services Task Force
recommends that men aged 65 to 75 years of age who have ever smoked tobacco undergo an
abdominal ultrasound to screen for aneurysmal disease. Aortic aneurysms may also present
symptomatically, with chest, abdominal and/or back pain and occasionally a palpable pulsatile
abdominal mass, which is widely believed to represent an increasingly unstable aneurysm.

Etiology
Certain risk factors, some modifiable and others non-modifiable (a.k.a. innate), predispose
individuals to the development of aortic aneurysms. These include age, male gender, family
history of aneurysms or aortopathies, and comorbidities including hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and peripheral vascular disease. Interestingly, female sex, African American race, and
a history of diabetes have been found to be protective against the development and rupture of
aortic aneurysms. A personal history of Marfan’s syndrome, Loeys Dietz syndrome, or Ehlers
Danlos Type IV (a.k.a. vascular Ehlers-Danlos or vEDS) is associated with a particularly
elevated risk of aneurysmal degeneration. Medical providers should counsel and assist their
patients to mitigate all potentially modifiable risk factors.

Diagnostics and Imaging
When evaluating a patient with a suspected aortic aneurysm, a thorough history, physical
examination, and imaging will help to narrow the differential diagnosis. Most often, patients
present without symptoms; however, if sympt