
(profound motor and sensory loss, generally with paralysis and inaudible arterial signal)
This patient falls into class IIb because he has both mild motor loss and sensory loss.
Rutherford RB, Baker JD, Ernst C, et al. Recommended standards for reports dealing
with lower extremity ischemia: Revised version. J Vasc Surg. 1997;26(3):517-538.
2. A 62-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension, congestive heart failure, and peripheral
arterial disease presents to the ED with rest pain,decreased sensation up to his calf, and
diﬀculty with movement of his toes in his left leg. He has been told he has acute limb
ischemia and requires intervention. While you are obtaining consent for surgery, the
patient asks about his chances of survival without intervention. Which of the following
statements applies to his situation?
A. The 5-year mortality rate is high secondary to his comorbidities, regardless of his acute
limb ischemia.
B. The 30-day mortality rate is increased (approximately 60%) if no revascularization is
performed.
C. The mortality rate of acute limb ischemia approaches 20% overall.
D. The mortality rate is not affected by his treatment of his ischemic limb.
Answer
B. The 30-day mortality rate is increased (approximately 60%) if no revascularization is performed.
Discussion: The mortality associated with no intervention in patients with acutely ischemic limbs is unacceptably high, despite the frailty and numerous comorbidities from
which these patients generally suffer.
Sidawy AN, Perler BA, eds. Rutherford’s Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy.
9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2019.
3. A 56-year-old man with chronic rate-controlled atrial fibrillation stopped coumadin prior
to a colonoscopy 1 week ago. He is otherwise healthy and takes no other medications.
He presents with pain in his left calf after walking two miles in 90 degree temperatures.
He is found to have both absent pulses and doppler signals in both his dorsalis pedis and
posterior tibial arteries in that leg. This is accompanied by pallor and pain. What is the
most likely etiology?
