 the situation is amenable to getting a CT angiogram to measure anatomic dimensions, several
components of the aneurysm anatomy should be assessed to determine anatomic suitability for
EVAR. These include the length, width, angulation of the aneurysm, and presence of disease
at the aneurysm neck (i.e. the aortic segment between the lowest renal artery and the proximal
extent of the aortic dilatation).
Ď Tip
 See page 71 of the Gore Vascular/Endovascular Surgery Combat Manual in the additional resources (?@sec-additionalresources) for a high-yield EVAR planning
and sizing considerations chart.
 Video Tutorial: Endovascular Aortic Repair Preoperative Sizing with Dr. Sharif
Ellozy. This is above the level of medical students, but for those who are interested,
watch it here.
The access vessels, including the bilateral iliac and femoral arteries, must be healthy enough to
allow sheaths, wires and catheters to pass through them. Calcification due to atherosclerosis
can make arterial access diﬀcult, and if vessels are so diseased as to be completely occluded,
wires and devices may not be able to travel past the occlusion. Additionally, the iliac arteries must be within the appropriate diameter and length dimensions to accommodate the

chosen stent graft. Lastly, certain anatomic anomalies such as a horseshoe kidney must be
evaluated to ensure the appropriateness of EVAR for repair. With recent innovations in endovascular devices and intra-operative imaging, many factors that were once contraindications
to EVAR have now become considerations when planning for EVAR. This is to say, as technology advances, EVAR is increasingly possible and safe for patients with diﬀcult anatomy
and co-morbidities.
EVAR Complications
Although a more recent development relative to open surgical repair (OSR), EVAR is not
without risk of complications. EVAR may be complicated by injury to access vessels such as
femoral occlusion or iliac avulsion (aka, “iliac-on-a-stick”), wire trauma from the relatively
stiff wires that are used to deliver the stent graft, rupture of the aneurysm, and endoleak.
Endoleak is the term used to describe ongoing blood fow in the aneurysm sac after st