 opposed to staged treatment with improvement in early disease severity and
QoL scores (Aherne et al. 2020a).
 Duplex ultrasound follow-up examination is recommended between 3-7 days following the
procedure to assess for successful ablation as well as endothermal heat-induced thrombosis (extension of proximal thrombus into deep system) (Sidawy and Perler 2023e). EHIT
may be treated with anticoagulants depending on the degree of extension (Sidawy and
Perler 2023e).

168

Disease Progression & Recurrence
 The EVRA trial demonstrates that patients who receive early endovenous ablation of
superficial venous refux with compression had shorter ulcer healing times (56 vs 82
days) as opposed to patients with compression therapy alone and deferred intervention
(6 months) (Gohel et al. 2018a).
 Patients receiving open or endovenous treatment of C2-C6 disease experience varicose
vein recurrence rates of up to 35% at two-year follow-up and 65% at 11 years follow
up (Wittens et al. 2015a). The majority of recurrent varicose veins are due to disease
progression (development of venous refux).
 Long-term surveillance typically includes venous duplex ultrasound imaging, hemodynamic assessment, and reclassification by the CEAP/VCSS criteria.

Teaching Case
Scenario
Mr. C.V.D is a 62-year-old male presenting to the vascular clinic with complaints of bilateral
leg swelling, pain, and skin changes over the past year. He describes aching pain that worsens
with prolonged standing and improves with leg elevation. He denies any recent trauma or
surgery to his lower extremities. He reports a history of occasional night cramps in his calves
and states that his symptoms have progressively worsened despite using over-the-counter pain
relievers intermittently.
PMHx: Significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. He underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery 7 years ago and takes aspirin 81 mg
daily for cardiovascular protection. His diabetes is managed with metformin 1000 mg twice
daily.
PSHx: