 day since he was 20 years old. He states that it is diﬀcult for him to walk 3 blocks
without having to stop which he finds particularly annoying. When asked where it hurts, he
starts grabbing his calves. He describes an achy, cramping, and pain in his calves whenever he
walks, mostly on the right side. He denies any new sores or wounds that are not healing.

Exam
HEENT: pupils equal round reactive to light, no lymphadenopathy
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm (RRR)
Pulmonary: Clear to auscultation in all lung fields. No accessory muscle use.
Abdominal: Soft, non-tender, non-distended, no pulsatile masses felt.
Vascular/Extremities: Warm, no edema present. Minimal hair appreciated bilaterally.
Non-palpable distal pulses. Bilateral femoral pulses appreciated. No wounds or sores noted.

Imaging
ABI: Right: 0.7 Left: 0.65



Chronic Limb Threatening Ischemia (CLTI)
Nakia Sarad, DO, MS, Ezra Schwartz, MD,CM, MS, Chaitanya Dandu, MD, Marvin Chau,
MD, Shannon McDonnell, BS, Bernadette Aulivola, MD, FACS, Kelly Kempe, MD, RPVI,
FACS, Kaled Diab, MD, and Lindsey Korepta, MD, FACS.

Note
By the end of this chapter, students will:
 Define chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) and summarize its etiology and
pathophysiology.
 Identify the clinical features and diagnostic criteria used to diagnose CLTI.
 Elaborate on the complications and potential consequences of untreated CLTI.
 Outline a comprehensive history and physical examination to evaluate patients with
suspected CLTI.
 Interpret diagnostic tests such as ankle-brachial index (ABI), Doppler ultrasound,
and angiography to confirm the diagnosis.
 Develop and implement a management plan for patients with CLTI, including
medical, endovascular, or surgical interventions.

Key Facts
1. Chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) refers to a severe and advanced form of
peripheral arterial disease (PAD) characterized by chronic inadequate blood supply
to the lower extremities for greater than 2 weeks.
2. CLTI presents as ischemic rest pain,