 number
of different interventions including angioplasty, stenting, and thrombectomy. An angiogram
is a procedure in which contrast dye is used to display the vasculature and its disease burden
under X-ray.
Ď Tip
Before an angiogram, one should be aware of all prior interventions a patient has had,
both open and endovascular. It can be useful to review old operative reports and imaging
studies in order to know the patient’s current anatomy.
Ď Tip
In addition, the patient’s most recent imaging studies should be reviewed including
ABI/PVRs, arterial duplex, and any axial imaging such as a CTA.
Please see Claudication Chapter for a summary of ABI/PVR testing and interpretation.
Procedure:
 Access is typically obtained in the contralateral common femoral artery and a wire and
catheter are passed up and over the aortic bifurcation to gain access to the operative
(ipsilateral) side.
 A series of angiograms are taken to assess the level of disease and based on this a final
operative plan will be made.
 There are multiple options for treatment including angioplasty, stenting, atherectomy,
thrombectomy, and thrombolysis, to name a few.
Possible Interventions:
 Angioplasty: a balloon is advanced across the area of concern (usually atherosclerosis
causing a fow limitation) and expanded to dilate the area of stenosis.

198

 Stenting: commonly after an angioplasty, a stent is placed to maintain patency of the
area. There are multiple types of stents (covered above) that can be used depending on
anatomic location, size, and indication.
 Atherectomy: a procedure where a calcified plaque is physically removed from the
artery. This can be done with a cutting blade, a spinning drill-like device, or a laser.
Ĺ Note
Considerations for Atherectomy
As plaque is broken into smaller pieces, there is a significant risk for distal embolization
of plaque debris. To prevent this, an embolic protection device is often used which can
filter blood and catch any smaller particulate matter that travels distally. Some of the
devices include an aspiration device to remove clot and thrombus as it is removed.
There is ongoing research into the outcomes of atherectomy versus stenting alone, but
generally, the