 of procedural complications
B. Shorter recovery time
C. Less risk of recurrence
D. Suitable for patients with deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
Answer
C. Less risk of recurrence.
Discussion: Surgical ligation and stripping of the great saphenous vein (GSV) have
been associated with lower recurrence rates compared to endovenous ablation techniques.
While endovenous ablation offers advantages such as shorter recovery times and lower
procedural complications, it may have slightly higher recurrence rates in some studies.
Surgical ligation and stripping are not suitable for patients with active deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and are generally reserved for superficial refux.

Introduction
Chronic venous disease (CVD) is one of the most common chronic diseases in the United
States. The more common manifestations of venous disease are telangiectasia, reticular veins,
and varicose veins. Chronic venous insuﬀciency (CVI) is a term reserved for advanced chronic
venous disease from functional abnormalities of the venous system, commonly manifesting
with hyperpigmentation, edema, lipodermatosclerosis, and venous ulcers. Common risk factors
for CVI include family history of venous disease, increasing age, smoking, obesity, prolonged
standing or sitting, history of venous thrombosis, pregnancy, history of lower extremity trauma,
and surgery.
Venous disease is increasing in prevalence largely due to the aging global population. In the
United States, more than 25 million adults (25% of women and 15% of men) are affected by
CVD with a disproportionately greater incidence and prevalence reported amongst women at
any age [Azar, Rao, and Oropallo (2022a)](Y. Kim et al. 2021a). Approximately 1% - 4% of
the adult population (2.6% in women and 1.9% in men) is affected by more advanced stages
of the disease including chronic, non-healing venous ulcers (Sidawy and Perler 2023d).
Socioeconomic factors also play a role in disease incidence and progression; patients without
health insurance are 2.6 times more likely to have venous ulcers compared to insured patients

157

(Scott et al. 19