 data, the diagnosis of an aortic
aneurysm can usually be made.
When looking at an imaging study, abdominal aortic aneurysms are labeled in regard to their
location relative to the renal arteries:
 Aortic aneurysms are termed “suprarenal” when their most proximal extent is above
the level of the renal arteries. Suprarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms typically involve
visceral branches of the aorta as well (i.e. the SMA or celiac trunk) and thus may also
be classified as a Crawford type IV thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA)
 Aneurysms are labeled “pararenal” when the proximal extent of the aneurysm is at the
level of the renal arteries and includes the origins of the renal arteries.

71

 Abdominal aortic aneurysms are termed “juxtarenal” when their most proximal extent
is immediately below the take-off of the renal arteries.
 Lastly, aneurysms are labeled “infrarenal” when they begin below the renal arteries,
often with a neck of non-dilated aorta between the lowest renal artery and the top of
the aneurysm. As one might expect, the location of the aneurysm has implications for
treatment options.

AAA anatomy description
relative to the renal arteries.
Ď Tip
Please see Figure 2 of this American Heart Association publication depicting the anatomic
classifications of AAAs.

Treatment
Once a diagnosis has been obtained, considerations for management follow. Similar to a
thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA), indications for repair are refective of risk for rupture. The
aim is to intervene when the rupture risk exceeds the risks posed by surgery. Intervention

72

is considered when an aneurysm reaches the size threshold of 5.5cm in males and 5cm in
females or if the growth rate exceeds 5 mm in 6 months. Again, this threshold is modified
in patients with a strong family history of aneurysmal disease or collagen vascular disorder,
or when patients present symptomatically or with a ruptured aorta. The topography of the
aneurysm must also be considered as a saccular aneurysm, an isolated pouch off the sidewall
