 is a minimally invasive procedure recommended for patients with ongoing symptoms of CVD with superficial venous refux (Sidawy and Perler 2023e). Ablation is
performed in an outpatient setting under local anesthesia using a variety of techniques including thermal, chemical, or mechanical methods to occlude the vessel and prevent retrograde
fow. By reducing venous fow volumes, endovenous ablation treats underlying venous hypertension, thereby reducing the risk of harm to the cutaneous tissues which may result in edema,
hyperpigmentation, lipodermatosclerosis, and ulceration (Hager et al. 2016a).
Endovenous treatments for varicose veins emerged as an alternative to open surgery and are
now the standard of care due to improved safety and eﬀcacy (Rautio et al. 2002a). The
most widespread technologies used for the treatment of truncal vein refux are radiofrequency
ablation (RFA) and endovenous laser ablation (EVLA). Both techniques utilize heat to induce
closure of the dysfunctional veins. RFA works by delivering radiofrequency energy, heating the
vein wall to cause destruction of the endothelium, contraction of vein wall collagen, thrombus
formation, and eventual fibrosis of the vein resulting in a durable ablation (Weiss, Feied, and
Weiss 2001a). The radiofrequency ablation (RFA) catheter should be placed 2 cm from the
saphenofemoral junction (SFJ) so as to prevent endothermal heat-induced thrombosis (EHIT).
Similarly, EVLA delivers laser energy to an area, resulting ultimately in fibrosis and occlusion
of the target vein (Perrin et al., n.d.a).
Non-thermal non-tumescent (NTNT) ablation methods offer alternatives to heat-based vein
treatments, employing techniques such as mechanochemical ablation (MOCA), cyanoacrylate
adhesive, and sclerosant foams. MOCA combines mechanical damage with the direct injection
of a sclerosant to close the vein, enhancing the effectiveness of the chemical agent (Boersma
et al. 2014a). Cyanoacrylate adhesive, injected directly into the vein, promotes vessel closure
through infammation and subsequent fib