ive determination of fow and directionality can be augmented to a carotid artery stenosis workup by diagnostic angiography. This requires femoral artery access and includes contrast
administration, as well as a small risk of periprocedural embolization. However, it offers additional physiologic evaluation that might not be present in DSA and that is inherently lacking
in CTA and MRA studies.

54

Asymptomatic Carotid Atery Stenosis Screening
The 2021 SVS clinical practice guidelines outline the following recommendations. In asymptomatic patients who qualify for carotid artery stenosis screening, duplex ultrasound is the
recommended choice over CTA, MRA, or other imaging modalities.
Routine screening is not recommended for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis
for individuals without significant risk factors for carotid disease.
Screening is recommended for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis in individuals with significant risk factors** for carotid disease. High-risk groups include:
 Patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD)
 Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG)
 Patients aged >= 55 years with at least two traditional atherosclerotic risk factors (hyperlipidemia, hypertension, etc.)
 Patients aged >= 55 years and active cigarette smoking
 Patients with diabetes, hypertension, or coronary artery disease (CAD)
 Patients with clinically occult cerebral infarction noted on brain imaging studies.
The presence of a carotid bruit increases the likelihood of detecting significant stenosis. Asymptomatic patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) or previous radiotherapy to the
neck who do not meet the criteria of any of the high-risk groups above do not require screening.
It has been shown that the prevalence of carotid stenosis increases proportionally with the
number of risk factors present.

Treatment
Carotid Artery Endarterectomy (CEA)
This procedure has been performed since the 1950s, either by plaque endarterectomy and
patch angioplasty or primary arterial repair. To prevent arterial restenosis, patch angioplasty
has become the standard of arterial closure after plaque removal. The procedure can involve
cerebral monitoring including electroencephalography (EEG), transcranial Doppler (TCD) and
stump pressure monitoring or be