 experience throbbing, tingling, and swelling.
 Episodes of ischemia to the digits may be persistent, severe and associated with underlying obliterative microangiopathy and manifest with pain and tissue loss (ulceration or
gangrene).
 Chronic ischemia of the upper extremity is uncommon and can manifest with arm claudication (exertional fatigue). The etiology is most commonly proximal obstruction due to
atherosclerotic disease in the subclavian artery. Uncommon causes can include Takayasu
arteritis and thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS).
 Exertion of the arm causing posterior cerebral circulation symptoms (diplopia,
dysarthria, dizziness, drop attacks, vertigo, syncope, and ataxia) may refect a subclavian steal syndrome caused by subclavian artery stenosis proximal to the vertebral
artery.

35

Abdomen Arterial History:
 A majority of vascular pathology in the abdomen can be attributed to aneurysmal disease
or atherosclerotic disease. Other etiologies of abdominal vascular diseases can include
compression syndromes, embolisms, or dissections.
 Aneurysmal disease in the abdomen is usually asymptomatic.
 Patients with known abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) who present with fank or back
pain should be presumed to have a ruptured aneurysm until proven otherwise.
 On the other hand, mesenteric atherosclerosis can present with a constellation of symptoms. The typical trifecta of symptoms is weight loss, sitophobia (fear of food), and
postprandial pain. Atherosclerosis of the renal arteries, known as renal artery stenosis,
may present as severe hypertension, especially in young adults.
 Aortoiliac occlusive disease may present with Leriche’s syndrome. Leriche’s syndrome
is defined as bilateral hip and buttock claudication, absent femoral pulses, and impotence.
 Vascular etiologies of acute abdominal pain include ruptured AAA aneurysm, which
presents as severe pain radiating to the back or acute mesenteric ischemia, which presents
as pain out of proportion to physical exam

Lower Extremities History:
 An evaluation of the lower extremities for peripheral artery disease should focus on
the timing (acute vs. chronic) and degree of ischemia (