ovascular intervention) in their lifetime. (Conte et al. 2019d)
 For CLTI patients who do not undergo any revascularization, the natural history includes
a 1-year major amputation and 1-year mortality rate of 22%. (Conte et al. 2019d)
 When looking at overall 1-year outcomes for all CLTI patients, 1-year amputation rates
are at 15-20% and 1-year mortality is at 15-40%. (Conte et al. 2019d)

125

 Less than half of all CLTI patients (45%) will have both limbs after 1-year from initial
time of diagnosis. These rates are even higher amongst the subset of CLTI patients who
have diabetes. (Conte et al. 2019d)
 As the diagnosis of CLTI carries a high risk of mortality and morbidity even with vascular intervention to improve blood fow, there is a strong emphasis on preventing the
progression of PAD to CLTI. (Conte et al. 2019d)

Surveillance
Medical Treatment Surveillance
 Patients with CLTI have variable outcomes with regard to limb loss and overall mortality.
 After revascularization procedures, Patients remain on dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT)
for 1-6 months.
 Through DAPT has been show to have increased bleeding risk, it may result in increased
survival and reduced risk of amputation. (Conte et al. 2019d)
 There is not a clear benefit to the use of of cilostazol, a PDE inhibitor, after endovascular
interventions for CLTI. (Conte et al. 2019d)

Endovascular Surveillance
 Early failure of endovascular procedures is common. As such, it is recommend that patients undergo duplex ultrasound surveillance and duplex guided interventions to prompt
long-term patency. However, there are no set guidelines for how long and how frequently
to perform surveillance.
 Recommended methods of surveillance include clinic visits, ankle-brachial indexes
(ABIs), and duplex scans.
 Surveillance intervals can range from 3-6 months.
 Ultimately, there is no strong evidence of benefit of routine duplex surveillance after
endovascular intervention of CLTI; however, patients with the characteristics below may