 that the patient has an underlying arrythmia
that needs cardioversion and medical management with Apixaban and PF4 levels are
unrelated to this patient’s current pathology.
2. A 50-year-old female patient with >80% right internal carotid artery stenosis presents
to clinic for her first postoperative visit after carotid endarterectomy (CEA). She has
no interval neurologic events since her discharge, has a soft neck with a clean incision.
During your neurologic exam you notice an unintentional, subtle tongue deviation to the
side of surgery. What is the most likely facial nerve involved in this finding?
A. Vagus Nerve.
B. Hypoglossal Nerve.
C. Glossopharyngeal Nerve.
D. Long Thoracic Nerve.
E. Hering’s Nerve.
Answer
B. Hypoglossal Nerve
Discussion: This patient has evidence of hypoglossal nerve neuropraxia which can occur
as the result of injury or traction on the nerve during distal dissection of the internal
carotid artery. Although both glossopharyngeal nerve injury and vagal injuries can also
occur during CEA, the former causes oropharyngeal dysfunction with swallowing and
the latter causes vocal cord paralysis leading to a hoarse voice. The long thoracic nerve
is more related to thoracic outlet surgery and innervation of the serratus anterior. The
Nerve of Hering is related to carotid sinus innervation and is unrelated to this clinical
finding.
3. During the initial evaluation of a patient with high grade symptomatic carotid disease,
you notice that the patient has internal carotid plaque on that side this is above the
angle of the mandible at the 1st cervical vertebral body (C1). This appears to be too
high to access through open surgery. The patient has no know history of coronary artery

48

disease, has a preserved ejection fraction and good functional status. He has a lowdensity lipoprotein level (LDL) of 200 mg/dL. What is the best treatment option for this
individual?
A. Transfemoral carotid artery angioplasty with placement on ASA only.
B. Carotid artery enterectomy with shunt placement.
C. Daily ASA therapy without any type of