, and
should be encouraged to ask questions and voice concerns prior to the initiation of treatment.


Patient monitoring and dose recording:
During fuoroscopy-guided procedures, patient radiation doses should be monitored and
recorded accurately to help understand the patient’s cumulative radiation exposure.
In a hybrid OR, the total radiation is recorded on the large screen. If not, you can always ask
the hybrid room technician.

Radiation shielding:
The use of personal protective devices made of dense materials, such as lead aprons, thyroid
collars, and other protective shields, serve to attenuate radiation.

Shielding
Shielding serves to protect vital organs from radiation exposure and damage. The most common type of shielding is lead, typically in the form of a skirt, vest, and thyroid shield worn
beneath the surgical gown.
Lead aprons and other lead-lined materials are highly effective in protecting personnel from
radiation exposure. Lead, being a very dense material, absorbs a significant portion of the
radiation from X-ray beams that would otherwise reach the person wearing it. These lead
protection devices are specifically designed to safeguard vital organs and those most sensitive
to radiation exposure—such as organs not shielded by overlying bone. This includes the torso,
reproductive organs, and the thyroid gland.

Reported effectiveness of worn lead varies. Some sources claim that a lead apron with a
thickness of 0.5 mm can reduce radiation scatter by 90%, while others suggest a lesser reduction.
However, there is a consensus that the apron should be at least 0.25 mm thick both in the
front and back. (Cheon et al. 2018)
Additional shielding such as lead screens can be found in the OR to provide further protection
against scattered X-rays.

Radiation Badges
Radiation badges or “dosimeters” are personal wearable devices designed to measure the
amount of radiation exposure an individual receives. They measure the total exposure accumulated over a set period of time. It’s important to note that these devices specifically
measure ionizing radiation and not other forms.
There are several types of badges available. Film badges are commonly used in clinical practice.
They are worn by a single person and are evaluated every 30 days. Other types of badges
provide real-time quantification of radiation exposure, with readings recorded at the beginning
and end of each shift. A radiation oﬀcer is typically tasked