 (Angiodynamics, Latham, NY): soft, fexible catheter with a radiopaque
tip that is able to administer contrast to visualize vessels. Omnifush device on back table
 Pigtail (Angiodynamics, Latham, NY): Similar to the Omnifush with a looped
end (Image YY).

190

Selective catheters:
 Contain one hole at the distal end of the tube.
 Selective catheters come in many different shapes and sizes.
 Intuitively, the anatomy of the vessel to be tracked will determine the diameter and tip
shape.
 When attempting to cross the aortic bifurcation into the contralateral common iliac
artery, a catheter with more of a J-tip or “Shepherd’s hook” is preferable.
 When attempting to cannulate vessel branches with a more acute angle, a smaller angle
catheter tip should be selected.
 Selective catheters can also be used to deliver contrast, but the contrast is only able to
leave the catheter through the end of the device.
 Angiograms with selective catheters are more tailored to specific vessels, such as a renal
or mesenteric artery.
 Selective Glidecath (Terumo, Tokyo, Japan): hydrophilic catheter available in 17
different shapes, but the 45 degree is most common. Comes in 4F or 5F. Offers great
trackability and pushability. This image depicts some of the glidecath tip shapes.

Sheaths
Sheaths are hollow tubes that provide a conduit between outer environment (i.e. outside the
body) and the vessel. Returning to our train analogy, a sheath is the “tunnel” that the track
and train run through.
Sheaths are used to advance and exchange catheters, wires, stents, balloons, and other devices.
Sheaths can be divided into short sheaths for access and long sheaths for diagnostics and
treatment. Long sheaths are fexible enough to track along different vessels, but are also stiff
enough to support the advancement or exchange of devices.
Ĺ Note
Sheaths are measured in French (1F = 0.33 mm) and the diameter corresponds to the
inner diameter of the tube.
As such, a 6F catheter will pass through a 6F sheath.
Key points about sheaths:
 Sheaths