 making them susceptible to diabetic vascular complications. Therefore, the
microvascular changes associated with diabetes result in a distal distribution of arterial disease
(i.e. toes and feet first).

100

Diagnostics and Imaging
Measurement of the ankle-brachial index (ABI) is the primary method for establishing the
diagnosis of PAD, however, a proper physical exam helps confirm the diagnosis of claudication.

Peripheral Pulse Exam
In terms of physical exam, claudicants may exhibit signs of muscle wasting with thin, dry, and
hairless skin, or even ulceration. These are all signs that blood fow is reduced to the point that
there are not enough nutrients to feed these tissues. If ulceration or non-healing wounds are
present, the patient likely has advanced peripheral arterial disease (i.e. critical limb ischemia).
In addition, a lower extremity motor/sensory exam and peripheral pulse assessment is key.
Ĺ Note
Pulse exams study the presence, strength, and character of arterial blood fow and are
graded on a scale from 0 to 4+. 0: non-palpable pulse 1+: diminished pulse 2+: normal
pulse 3+: prominent pulse or aneurysmal. 4+: bounding pulse or aneurysmal.
Lower extremity peripheral pulse exams evaluate the dorsalis pedis (DP) and posterior tibial
(PT) pulses using manual palpation. Patients with claudication may have pulse exams ranging
from non-palpable to normal pulse. If patients have non-palpable pulses, then a continuouswave Doppler probe can be used to assess blood fow.

Ankle Brachial Index (ABI)
Ankle Brachial Index (ABI) is a non-invasive method that measures the ratio of blood pressure
in the lower legs to the blood pressure in the arms. Performing an ABI requires an appropriately sized manual blood pressure cuff and a hand-held, continuous-wave Doppler probe. The
patient should be in the supine position and allowed to rest before the examination begins.
The blood pressure cuff is placed above the ankle. The Doppler probe is used to locate the
dorsalis pedis (DP) or posterior tibial (PT) pulse, the cuff is infated until the Doppler signal
is obliterated, and then the cuff is then slowly released; the pressure at which the Doppler