 sheaths (>8Fr), use of arterial closure devices
 More likely to involve anticoagulation

Access Complications
Although each procedure comes with its own specific risks (e.g. stroke for a carotid artery stent,
distal embolization for atherectomy etc), there are multiple complications that can occur with
any endovascular procedure. The procedure specific complications will be explored in further
detail in each chapter. Common access complications are listed below.
Groin Hematoma
A groin hematoma is a collection of blood that has collected outside the lumen of the vessel,
which often occurs after removal of the sheath.
Groin hematoma characteristics:
 Occur in about 1-3 % of cases
 Often due to a stick not directly over the femoral head in which case manual pressure
may not provide adequate hemostasis.
 Hematomas are rarely ever operated on unless they case skin compromise, severe pain,
femoral nerve compression, or are rapidly expanding.
 Hematoma will generally be absorbed by the body.
 If they are operated on, there is a significant risk of infection (about 20%) and seroma
formation.
Pseudoaneurysms
A pseudoaneurysm is defined as a collection of turbulent blood fow contained only by one
or two layers of the arterial wall as opposed to a true aneurysm where all three layers are
dilated (occur in less than 1% of endovascular cases). They occur secondary to injury
(iatrogenic or trauma).
These must be managed urgently and treated appropriately to prevent significant
morbidity and mortality.
Pseudoaneurysm presentation:
 Pulsatile often painful mass at a prior access site
 May lead to skin necrosis
 Bruit on auscultation

201

Pseudoaneurysm risks:






Vessel rupture
Thrombus formation with distal embolization
Skin necrosis
Nerve compression
Venous compression

Etiology:
Most often, seen at the femoral artery as an access site complication from:
 Failed deployment of a closure device
 Laceration of the artery or branch by an access needle
 Inadequate pressure or length of pressure being held.
Patients who are obese, female, hypertensive or are on anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy
are at higher risk for femoral PSA.
Workup:
 Duplex