.a. vascular Ehlers-Danlos or vEDS) is associated with a particularly
elevated risk of aneurysmal degeneration. Medical providers should counsel and assist their
patients to mitigate all potentially modifiable risk factors.

Diagnostics and Imaging
When evaluating a patient with a suspected aortic aneurysm, a thorough history, physical
examination, and imaging will help to narrow the differential diagnosis. Most often, patients
present without symptoms; however, if symptomatic, typical complaints include chest, abdominal or back pain. Physical exam findings may not be overt but vital signs may provide a first
clue in a symptomatic patient as heart rate and blood pressure might deviate from normal
ranges. Patients with thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAA) often have no other easily identifiable
physical exam findings aside from vital sign derangements in those with symptomatic or ruptured aneurysms. In thin patients with suspected AAA, the abdominal exam may demonstrate
a pulsatile mass at or adjacent to the midline.

70

Figure 2: Aneurysm Topography
Although the history and physical exam are indispensable to patient evaluation, the diagnosis
of an aneurysm is usually secured with imaging. The mainstay of imaging is computed tomography (CT), while ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and angiography are
useful modalities in non-urgent or non-emergent settings. The benefits of CT, particularly
the richness of anatomic data obtained, must be weighed against the potential risks related
to contrast administration and exposure to radiation. Since the 2019 statement from the U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force regarding one-time screening with ultrasonography in men
aged 65 to 75 years who have ever smoked, the use of ultrasound has a more prominent role
in AAA screening. Equipped with history, exam, and imaging data, the diagnosis of an aortic
aneurysm can usually be made.
When looking at an imaging study, abdominal aortic aneurysms are labeled in regard to their
location relative to the renal arteries:
 Aortic aneurysms are termed “suprarenal” when their most proximal extent is above
the level of the renal arteries. Suprarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms typically involve
visceral branches of the aorta as well