 end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 61-year-old man with a history of heavy smoking, hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
and peripheral arterial disease with intermittent claudication presents to the ED with 3
hours of severe, acute-onset pain in his right foot. He takes aspirin daily, a beta-blocker
for his hypertension, and metformin for his diabetes. His right foot is cool compared to
his left foot. A thorough physical exam reveals no palpable pulses or audible doppler
signals in his dorsalis pedis or posterior tibial arteries in the right foot. In addition,
he has loss of fine touch, and proprioception to the ankle. He also has weakness with
plantar/dorsifexion of the toes in the right foot. Based on Rutherford’s classification of
acute limb ischemia, what category of acute limb ischemia does this patient have?
A. I
B. IIa
C. IIb
D. III
Answer
C. IIb.
Discussion:
Here is the Rutherford classification of acute limb ischemia:
Stage I: viable limb that is not immediately threatened (intact motor and sensory function,
with audible arterial and venous signals)
Stage IIa: marginally threatened and salvageable limb if properly treated (intact motor
function and sensory deficit in the toes [or none at all], with often inaudible arterial
signal)
Stage IIb: immediately threatened limb that is salvageable only with immediate revascularization (mild to moderate motor loss with significant sensory loss, with usually
inaudible arterial signal)

132

Stage III: Irreversibly damaged limb with major tissue loss or permanent nerve damage
(profound motor and sensory loss, generally with paralysis and inaudible arterial signal)
This patient falls into class IIb because he has both mild motor loss and sensory loss.
Rutherford RB, Baker JD, Ernst C, et al. Recommended standards for reports dealing
with lower extremity ischemia: Revised version. J Vasc Surg. 1997;26(3):517-538.
2. A 62-year-old man with diabetes