 and outfow of bypass
graft anastomoses, An example of a case utilizing a hybrid approach would be if a patient
presented with ALI and was found to have a bypass graft occlusion. The occlusion is treated
with a traditional embolectomy using a Fogarty balloon and a common femoral endarterectomy
is additionally performed to improve graft infow.
Endovascular Management
Endovascular surgery for the management of ALI provides minimally invasive options for
patients who are not good candidates for open revascularization. Endovascular surgical options
include catheter directed thrombolysis, mechanical thrombectomy, or pharmacomechanical

140

thrombectomy and there are numerous devices on the market for the application of these
therapies.
In catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT), utilized in viable (class I) and marginally
threatened (class IIa) cases of ALI, a tPA infusion catheter is inserted into a selected artery
percutaneously and provides targeted anticoagulation to the affected lesion reducing systemic
effects. The lytic catheter is positioned just distal to the end of the thrombus and proximal to
the origin of the thrombus. The lytic agent is initiated at placement and continues over a 10-12
hour period with fibrinogen level monitoring every 4 hours; therapy should be discontinued if
fibrinogen levels drop <100. Major contraindications for this procedure include a head injury,
intracranial surgery, spine surgery, or stroke within the last 3 months, an active bleeding
disorder, a GI bleeding disorder within 10 days, a cerebrovascular accident within 6 months,
known intracranial aneurysm, tumor, or vascular malformation.
*Mechanical thrombectomy uses aspiration, hydrodynamic forces, or mechanical/rotational
forces to clear a thrombus. The procedural steps are similar to catheter-directed thrombolysis
in terms of percutaneous access and cannulation of the target vessel. This procedure utilizes
an aspiration mechanical thrombectomy catheter to simultaneously provide fragmentation and
aspiration to restore arterial fow.
Pharmacomechanical thrombectomy is a very similar concept as mechanical thrombectomy. In addition to mechanical clot extraction, it applies thrombolytic therapy with a