 to
begin the procedure.

Closure and Closure Devices
Once the procedure is complete, percutaneous access will need to be closed. If relatively small
catheters and sheaths were used during the procedure, generally below 6 French (1F = .33
millimeter), arterial access may be closed with manual compression by applying pressure with
two fingers over the site of incision against the femoral head. Alternatively, certain indications,
such as use of anticoagulation or large body habitus, may require closure devices even if larger
catheters or sheaths were not used during the procedure.
There are several different types of closure devices. Each type can be differentiated by the use
of suture or sealant to close the vessel.
A common closure device you are likely to encounter on a vascular surgery service is the Perclose ProGlide (Abbott Vascular, Chicago, IL), a suture-mediated closure device. Other closure devices include the Angioseal (Terumo, Tokyo, Japan), which deploys a bioabsorbable
anchor to the arterial puncture site with surrounding collagen to promote closure, and the
MYNXGRIP (Cordis, Miami Lakes, FL), which uses a balloon pressed against the site of
arterial puncture and an adhesive sealant outside the vessel that dissolves slowly as the puncture site heals. Less commonly used closure devices include the Angioseal (Terumo, Tokyo,
Japan), which deploys a bioabsorbable anchor to the arterial puncture site with surrounding
collagen to promote closure. Other less commonly used closure devices include the Manta,
StarClose, Vascade, and Cardiva.
Ď Tip
A step-by-step guide to deploying Perclose devices is shown in this animated video and
listed below.
1. Exchange the procedural sheath for a guide wire so only the guide wire is left in
the vessel.
2. Advance the fushed perclose device over the guidewire until the wire exit port is
at skin level.
3. Remove the guidewire so only the perclose device is in the vessel and advance the
perclose device until blood fows out of the marker lumen.
4. Lift the lever to open the foot of the device.
5. Insert the plunger down to insert needles, which will connect the threads of the
perclose .
6. Remove the plunger, which pulls the thread taught,