ilothermia, paresthesias, and paralysis)
serving as diagnostic indicators. These symptoms make sense. If you have no fow, there will
be no pulse. With no pulse, there will be no red blood (pallor) or warm blood (poikliothermia)
in the affected limb. Lack of blood fow causes ischemia leading to pain, nerve ischemia/death
(paraesthesia), and eventual paralysis. Review a pictogram of the 6 P’s here.
CT angiography is the preferred imaging modality, aiding in both diagnosis and intraoperative
strategy. Treatment options range from anticoagulation alone to open or endovascular surgery,
depending on the severity of ALI. (Sidawy and Perler 2023b)

The 6 P’s are highly testable and extremely important to recognize. Again, they are:
 Pain (sometimes lessenes when limb is in a dependent position, i.e. gravity help
blood fow)
 Pulselessness
 Palllor
 Poikliothermia (i.e. cold to touch)
 Paresthesia (replaces pain in later stages)

136

 Paralysis (final stage)
Most patients initially present with pain, pallor, pulselessness, and poikliothermia.(Smith
and Lilie 2024b)

Etiology
As briefy mentioned in the introduction, ALI is caused by a sudden reduction in blood supply
to the affected limb. The two major causes of ALI are embolism and thrombosis.

Embolism
Embolic events occur when material, typically clot, dislodges from a source and travels in
the arterial system until it deposits in a vessel causing an obstruction. Emboli typically get
lodged at arterial bifurcation sites or in atherosclerotic vessels. For example in the lower
extremity, clot commonly lodges at the bifurcation where the common femoral artery divides
into the superficial femoral artery and profunda. Patients who have acute limb ischemia due
to embolic sources typically have severe symptoms due to lack of collateral development (N.B.
collateralization is a common finding in patients with chronic limb ischemia).
Embolic events can typically be categorized into those that come from cardiac and those that
come from noncardiac sources.
The most common etiology of cardiac emboli is atrial fibrillation