 incorrect. If the badge is
worn at the level of the chest, the dose will also not be the most accurate, making answer
b incorrect.

Introduction
The use of radiation is fundamental to a vascular surgeon’s practice. Intraoperative fuoroscopy,
computer tomography (CT), and plain film X-rays (to a lesser extent) are crucial tools in
vascular surgery. The vascular surgery patient will likely undergo all these radiation-based
imaging studies.
Vascular surgeons and other professionals (nurses, scrub technicians, imaging technicians, etc.)
can be exposed to significant levels of radiation over a career of performing intraoperative
fuoroscopy/angiography and endovascular surgery. As the medical community is well aware
of these risks, many initiatives are underway to decrease the amount of radiation required to
perform studies and interventions.
Vascular patients are also exposed to radiation, although often at higher doses over shorter
periods of time. Educating oneself about radiation and radiation safety is essential. This
chapter will explore the basics of radiation, radiation safety principles and measures, and
potential adverse outcomes of significant radiation exposure.

214

Radiation Penetrance
A critical concept to understand when discussing occupational and patient exposure to radiation is penetrance.
 Penetrance refers to the ability of emitted radiation to penetrate into or through materials and is defined as the fraction of radiation passing through a given object (or the
inverse of attenuation).
 The density of materials or tissues determines their ability to attenuate or block
X-rays.
 Dense tissues (bone) or materials (lead) absorb a greater fraction of radiation while less
dense tissues (skin) or materials (water) allow for deeper penetration.
This concept is especially relevant to vascular surgeons and their patients as an increasing
proportion of vascular procedures are performed endovascularly under live fuoroscopy which
utilizes X-rays.

Figure 1: Penetrating power of different types of radiation - alpha, beta, gamma and neutrons
courtesty of Openclipart and Juhele. X-rays have similar penetrance to gamma rays.

Radiation types
Radiation can be broadly categorized into ionizing and non-ionizing forms. This chapter will
focus on ionizing radiation, which is encountered by medical professionals in clinical settings.
Ionizing radiation falls within the higher frequency range of the electromagnetic spectrum. The
commonly discussed types of ionizing radiation include X-rays,