35”, 0.018” and 0.014”.

186

Stiness





Wire stiffness is determined by the metal used as the core of the wire.
The same wire will become stiffer with a larger diameter.
Softer wires are used to manipulate catheters into vessels.
Stiffer wires are needed to push larger devices, such as balloons or endografts.

Coating
 Wires have a hydrophilic or hydrophobic coating.
 Hydrophilic wires have less friction when moving along the vessel wall and track more
closely along the vessel lumen, increasing the risk of dissection.
 Hydrophilic wires are preferable in highly tortuous vessels.
 In contrast, hydrophobic wires keep more distance from the vessel wall and are less likely
to dissect.
Tip Shape

The tip shape and consistency of the wire is important.
Angled tips are used to navigate into side branches of vessels.
Soft tips are designed to prevent trauma to the vessel wall.
Weighted tips are used to cross occlusions.
J-tips are used to prevent wiring of too small of vessels that may lead to trauma of end
organs.

Length
 Wires are measured in centimeters (cm) and typically range from 80 - 300 cm.
 Wires must not only be long enough to reach the target vessel from the point of access,
but also need to be long enough to support exchanges outside of the body as needed.
 Care must be taken to avoid too long of a wire for its intended purpose as it is harder
to control the end of the wire outside of the body.
Function
Wires can be categorized by function. Please find a list of each category with common examples
of specific wires below.

187

Figure 2: Commonly used wires, curtosy of B. G. Northcutt, MD, A Shah, MD, Y Sheu, MD,
L Carmi, MD.

188

Access wires:
 Short, typically 0.018” wires with a soft, non-directional tip to prevent any trauma to the
vessel when entering, and a stiffer body to allow tracking of the introducer and sheath
into the vessel.
Guidewires:
 Generally are characterized as pushable, hydrophilic wires with a foppy, curved or angled
tips that are designed to track through