 video guide of a typical EVAR.
1. Bilateral femoral access via percutaneous or open surgical exposure (a.k.a. “femoral
cut-downs”)
2. Heparinization to achieve an activated clotting time (ACT) greater than 250 seconds.
3. Placement of stiff wires into the abdominal aorta and upsizing of sheaths into the access
vessels.
4. Aortogram to visualize renal arteries and deployment of the endograft main body under
the origins of the renal arteries.
5. Cannulation of contralateral limb gate using a wire and catheter with subsequent confirmation that both the wire and catheter are within the main body.


6. Aortoiliac angiogram to measure the distance from the contralateral gate to the contralateral hypogastric (i.e. internal iliac) artery.
7. Deployment of contralateral limb with the distal landing site just proximal to the hypogastric artery.
8. Partial deployment of the ipsilateral limb.
9. Aortoiliac angiogram to measure the distance from the ipsilateral gate of the main body
to the ipsilateral hypogastric artery.
10. Deployment of the remainder of the ipsilateral limb.
11. Ballooning of the proximal and distal landing zones, and areas of stent overlap.
12. Remove wires and sheaths and close arteriotomies (often with closure devices).
13. Reverse heparin with protamine.
14. Apply pressure to surgical sites and monitor for hematoma formation.
EVAR Considerations and Planning
The need for imaging can be a limiting factor such as when patients with a ruptured aneurysm
are too hemodynamically unstable to stop at the CT scanner prior to repair or when a patient’s
kidney function is too impaired to tolerate a large contrast bolus.
If the situation is amenable to getting a CT angiogram to measure anatomic dimensions, several
components of the aneurysm anatomy should be assessed to determine anatomic suitability for
EVAR. These include the length, width, angulation of the aneurysm, and presence of disease
at the aneurysm neck (i.e. the aortic segment between the lowest renal artery and the proximal
extent of the aortic dilatation).
Ď Tip
 See page