 CVD and implementing timely interventions can drastically improve patient
outcomes. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that physicians and healthcare providers
in all specialties are familiar with venous disease, so that it can be recognized and treated in
its earlier stages.

Etiology
The peripheral venous system uses valves within the veins to prevent retrograde fow. Skeletal
muscle contractions serve to pump blood forward, allowing travel against gravity and return
to the heart. Patent veins, functioning valves, and muscle pumps are necessary for the venous
system to operate properly.
The veins of the lower extremities are classified as superficial (above the muscular fascia),
deep (below the muscular fascia), and perforating veins (penetrating the muscular fascia).
The superficial venous system drains the cutaneous microcirculation and consists of the great
saphenous vein (GSV) and small saphenous vein (SSV), collectively known as “truncal veins”,
in addition to several other accessory veins. Deep veins follow the course of corresponding arteries and consist of the plantar, tibial, popliteal, femoral, deep femoral, and common femoral
veins. Perforating veins cross the fascial layer, connecting superficial and deep veins. Throughout the deep and superficial veins are several one-way valves that help blood travel toward the
heart while preventing it from returning to the feet (Meissner 2005a).
CVD results from functional abnormalities of the venous system that cause elevated venous
pressure, also known as venous hypertension. Valvular incompetence, thrombotic obstruction,

158

or extrinsic compression can all impede blood return and cause venous hypertension. Dysfunctional calf muscle pumps can also exacerbate the problem. Persistent venous hypertension
can result in insuﬀciency and subsequent infammation leading to edema, hyperpigmentation of the skin, subcutaneous tissue fibrosis (known as lipodermatosclerosis), and eventually,
ulceration.
Incompetence of the valves in the superficial venous system allows for retrograde fow of blood,
which is called “refux.” Failure of valves located at the junctions of the deep and superficial
systems can be a source of refux leading to CVI. For example, the great saphenous vein (GSV)
drains into the fem