 wall porosity. To explain graft wall porosity, imagine filling
up a pillowcase with water. Even if the pillowcase has the tightest of weaves, eventually,
water will leak through the pillowcase.
 Type V: increase in aneurysm size with no identifiable cause.

76

Endoleak classifications.

77

Ď Tip
Please click here to open an article by Dr. Tamer W. Kassem with a simple image
depicting the endoleak classifications.
Additionally, one should monitor for abdominal compartment syndrome after repair of AAA
rupture, as much of the large volume resuscitation can leak from the intravascular compartment into the interstitium of the abdominal tissues causing distention. In the event of rupture,
the retroperitoneal hematoma can cause a mass effect and increase of abdominal pressures.
Lastly, a well-known complication of EVAR is ischemic colitis, although it is only encountered
in less than 3% of endovascular aortic repairs. This occurs when the colon becomes ischemic
secondary to vascular hypoperfusion caused by a variety of quoted sources including atheroembolization and systemic hypotension. Albeit rare, ischemic colitis has a significant associated
mortality risk and should be addressed promptly with bowel rest, antibiotic coverage, a fexible sigmoidoscopy, and potentially further intervention, if warranted. This complication is not
limited to EVAR and has been identified postoperatively with the same incidence in OSR.

Open Surgical Repair (OSR)
Open surgical repair (OSR) remains the traditional means of repairing AAA and is still the
most appropriate modality when EVAR is not feasible for anatomic reasons. In the elective
setting, the ideal patient is physiologically fit enough for OSR as it is a procedure with the
potential for significant morbidity and a lengthy recovery.
OSR Considerations and Planning
OSR can be conducted via a transperitoneal or a retroperitoneal exposure. Other decision
points for open repair include the following:
 Location of the proximal clamp: A clamp must be placed on the aorta in a location
free of significant disease, with enough clearance below it to allow space for suturing the
proximal anastomosis.
 Configuration of the proximal anastomosis: Anastomoses performed for aneurysmal disease are sewn in an end-to