 can be conducted via a transperitoneal or a retroperitoneal exposure. Other decision
points for open repair include the following:
 Location of the proximal clamp: A clamp must be placed on the aorta in a location
free of significant disease, with enough clearance below it to allow space for suturing the
proximal anastomosis.
 Configuration of the proximal anastomosis: Anastomoses performed for aneurysmal disease are sewn in an end-to-end fashion, whereas aortas being reconstructed for occlusive
disease can be performed either end-to-end or end-to-side.
 Location of the distal anastomosis: the end of the graft can be sewn to either the distal
aorta, iliac arteries, or femoral arteries depending on the extent of the native vessel that
needs to be excluded and the distal location where the vessel is healthy enough to clamp
and receive sutures (e.g. is not heavily calcified).

78

 Management of the inferior mesenteric artery when an end-to-end anastomosis is created:
The IMA can be ligated If collateral fow is adequate or reimplanted into the graft if
collateral fow is inadequate.
 Management of aberrant intraperitoneal anatomy and pathology: Examples include adhesions or scarred tissue due to previous abdominal surgery, accessory renal arteries,
horseshoe kidney, history of kidney transplant, and previous aortic replacement, among
many other possibilities.
Depending on the urgency of repair, many of these considerations might only be entertained
intraoperatively.

Open Aortic Repair (OAR)
with suprarenal clamp.
OSR Complications
Complications related to OSR differ from those of EVAR, owing greatly to the open abdominal
exposure and the lack of intraluminal wire manipulation. Just as with most other laparotomies
or open retroperitoneal dissections, incisional pain can be significant and cause atelectasis
or other respiratory compromise. Additionally, ileus and wound infections can impair the
return of proper bowel function. Similar to EVAR, ischemic colitis can manifest after OSR,
particularly in the setting of rupture.

79

Outcomes
Much experience has been gained since the first EVAR in 1990 and ample research has been
dedicated to the comparison of EVAR