%.). An even greater stroke
risk reduction was seen in patients with >70% carotid stenosis (9% CEA vs. 26% medical
management).
 Current management of patients with symptomatic >50% carotid stenosis who are
low/standard risk is carotid endarterectomy over transfemoral carotid stenting (TFCAS),
as there are no studies to date which have shown benefit of TFCAS.
 Patients who are deemed high risk, as defined above, may be considered for TCAR over
TFCAS due to the significantly lower incidence of in-hospital stroke and death (1.6%
vs. 3.1%).
 Post-operative surveillance (by duplex ultrasound) after open (CEA) or endovascular
(TF-CAS) repair of the carotid artery is strongly recommended by the SVS to monitor
for signs of restenosis in the repaired artery or atherosclerotic disease progression in the
unoperated, contralateral artery. Duplex ultrasound testing is recommended within 30
days of the procedure, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually.
 Restenosis <50% warrants the regular surveillance protocol; 50-99% warrants closer
follow-up, confirmation with a CTA, and possible angiographic evaluation; 100% restenosis warrants surveillance and medical treatment of the contralateral carotid artery.
 It should be noted, there is some debate as to the economic and medical value of continuing post-operative duplex ultrasound surveillance after successful CEA with patch
closure when the immediate post-operative duplex was normal or showed minimal disease.

Teaching Case
Scenario
An 81 year old male with a significant smoking history and prior three vessel CABG five years
ago, presents with monocular right eye blindness that occurred two days ago. He has no prior
ophthalmologic conditions and states that he describes the process of a veil coming down over

58

his right eye with resolution about a minute later with complete return of normal vision at
that point. He denies any other symptoms during the event or since, such as motor or sensory
deficits, speech, etc. He did not think much of the event but presented after his wife told him
to see someone about the event.

Exam
HEENT: No prior neck incisions,