 the X-ray source emits radiation, radiation scatter occurs, moving upward and outward
from the source.

216

Terminology
It is imporant to understanding the terminology related to radiation exposure.
 The absorbed dose refers to the energy from ionizing radiation per unit mass of exposed
material, measured in grays (Gy).
 The equivalent dose represents the mean absorbed dose of a specific organ or tissue,
measured in sieverts (Sv).
 The effective dose, also measured in *8sieverts (Sv),** accounts for total-body radiation
exposure and is guided by the International Commission on Radiological Protection
(ICRP) guidelines for comparing radiation effects on individuals.
X-ray technology for imaging comprises two critical components: the radiation source, where
X-ray photons are generated, and the detector.
 The shape of the beam from the source is managed by the collimator.
 As X-ray beam passes through the patient, they are captured by the detector and an
image is created by image intensifier.
In endovascular procedures using a C-arm, the detector portion (i.e. image intensifier) is above
the patient, while the X-ray source is beneath the patient and table.

Principles for Patient Safety and Radiation Exposure
While any procedure that produces ionizing radiation will expose the patient to some degree
of risk, it is the responsibility of the patient’s surgeon to ensure that the risk of the procedure
is minimized as much as possible without compromising the eﬀcacy of the therapy.
Certain considerations exist for special patient populations including pregnant patients. These
are discussed later in this chapter.
A number of core principles should be considered whenever a provider is considering recommending or performing a treatment with ionizing radiation including:

Medical Necessity and Justication for the Procedure
The potential benefits of the procedure should outweigh the risks of not performing the procedure or performing an alternative procedure without radiation exposure.

217

Exposure Optimization
The radiation dose delivered, particularly for intraoperative exposures, should be optimized
to be as low as possible while still achieving adequate image quality for the procedure and
decision making.
This includes fuoroscopy techniques such as reducing the time under fuoroscopy by using
pulsed fuoroscopy as opposed to continuous scanning, collimating the X-ray beam to
the area of interest and narrowing the beam to only scan structures necessary, adjusting
the frame rate of fuor