 common adverse effect of radiation exposure to the eye. There
was no mention of increased intraocular pressure or abnormal fundoscopic exam making
answers a, b, and d incorrect.
4. A 65 year old female is presenting to the hospital for endovascular repair of a complicated
AAA. There is prolonged radiation time with a calculated absorbed dose of 3.5 Gy. What
is the most likely skin exam finding during the patient’s hospital course?
A. Skin necrosis
B. Burn
C. No acute findings as the dose were too low
D. Erythema

212

Answer
D. Erythema
Discussion: With a dose of 3.5 Gy, the most likely result will be transient erythema
between 2 to 24 hours from exposure. This can be found in table 2. Skin necrosis can
occur, but it would need much higher doses making answer a wrong. It would be incorrect
to say the dose is too low as 3.5 Gy making answer c invalid, and also below the threshold
to cause a burn making answer b incorrect as well.
5. A 42 year old male on hemodialysis from a left upper extremity brachiocephalic fistula
for CKD is seen for a fistulogram due the patient having trouble pulling during dialysis.
The patient is placed in the supine position with left arm extended. The c-arm is initially
perpendicular to the operating table. To achieve better views of the proximal vessels,
the c-arm is rotated counterclockwise (from the perspective of looking from the patient’s
feet superiorly) so that the image intensifier is rotated more towards the patient’s right
shoulder. What is the appropriate name for the c-arm position?
A. LAO (left anterior oblique)
B. RAO (right anterior oblique)
C. Cranial
D. Caudal
E. AP (anterior posterior)
Answer
B. RAO (right anterior oblique)
Discussion: When the image intensifier is rotated more towards the right shoulder, this
is the RAO position making answer a correct. If the c-arm were rotated clockwise, with
the c-arm over the left shoulder, this would be the LAO position. As no mention was
made of rotating the c-arm towards the head or foot of the