, Rao, and Oropallo 2022a).
CEAP classification

Recommended therapy

Asymptomatic C1
Symptomatic C1
Symptomatic C2-C6 with
refux

Conservative
Conservative and/or sclerotherapy
Superficial venous ablation, phlebectomy, or vein stripping
and/or ligation

Fig. 3: Therapy recommendations based on CEAP classification score

Conservative Management
Initial therapy for the majority of patients with CVD is conservative treatment with compression and leg elevation. Compression therapy includes elastic stockings or wraps or pneumatic
compression devices. Typically, 20-30 mmHg compression is used to treat symptomatic varicose veins, although higher levels can be used in patients with more advanced disease. Graduated compression stockings oppose tissue expansion during muscle contraction, narrowing the
superficial veins’ diameters, subsequently decreasing venous refux and venous hypertension,
which are two key elements in the pathophysiology of CVD (Gloviczki et al. 2024a).


Although compression stockings provide symptomatic relief for patients with varicose veins, a
systematic review from 2009 found there is no evidence for prevention of recurrence or cessation
of disease progression (Palfreyman and Michaels 2009a). The Society for Vascular Surgery,
the American Venous Forum, and the American Vein and Lymphatic 2023 clinical practice
guidelines for the management of varicose veins of the lower extremities recommends against
a 3 month trial of compression therapy prior to intervention for patients with symptomatic
varicose veins who are candidates for surgical intervention (Gloviczki et al. 2024a).
Despite the lack of evidence supporting the long term eﬀcacy of compression therapy, insurance companies and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently require a 3
month trial of compression stockings before surgical intervention for C2 disease (Gloviczki et
al. 2024a).

Endovenous & Surgical Interventions

While conservative treatment is often offered as an initial step, it does not address the
underlying pathology. Patients with symptomatic superficial refux who are candidates
for endovenous or surgical intervention should be offered early corrective therapy (Azar,
Rao, and Oropallo 