 to rectify persistent healthcare disparities. (Remington, Catlin, and
Gennuso 2015)
Vascular surgeons treat patients with advanced atherosclerosis and diabetes, which are diseases that disproportionately affect vulnerable and socioeconomically disadvantaged patients.
Given this reality, it is important for vascular surgeons to have a strong foundational understanding of the social determinants of health and health disparities that lead to unequal care
among patients. This textbook chapter does not intend to be comprehensive, but rather an
introduction to scope of health disparities in vascular surgery.

Denitions
Health Disparities: The preventable differences in the burden of disease, injury, violence,
or opportunities to achieve optimal health that are experienced by socially disadvantaged
populations. (“Health Disparities | DASH | CDC” 2023)
Social Determinants of Health: The circumstances in which people are born, grow up,
live, work, age, and the systems put in place to deal with illness. (“Social Determinants of
Health: Key Concepts,” n.d.)
Structural Racism: A system in which public policies, institutional practices, cultural representations, and other norms work in various, often reinforcing ways to perpetuate racial group
inequity. (Allison et al. 2023)

27

Health Disparities in Vascular Surgery
Race, Ethnicity, and Structural Racism
There is an abundance of literature documenting racial and ethnic disparities across the
spectrum of vascular disease including thoracic and aortic aneurysms, carotid disease, and
hemodialysis access. However, disparities spanning the disease continuum of peripheral artery
disease (PAD) is one of the most robustly studied areas in surgery disparities research.
A scientific statement published by the American Heart Association outlines the scope of
health disparities in PAD. Looking at prevalence, it has been demonstrated Black patients
have a higher prevalence of PAD, even after controlling for traditional cardiovascular risk
factors. Prevalence of PAD among other racial and ethnic groups is less documented, but
limited evidence suggests higher rates of PAD among Cuban populations especially when
compared to other Hispanic and Latinx groups. Risk factor control and preventative measures
are important management tools to prevent the progression of PAD to critical limb threatening
ischemia (CLTI) and limb loss. However, Black and Hispanic patients are more likely to present
with hyper