 further away from the area being imaged.
If the X-ray tube is too close, imaging quality can degrade and radiation dose increases. This
strategic arrangement ensures that the image quality remains high while minimizing patient
exposure to radiation.
Ď Tip
See a visual summary of correct and incorrect technique here.
Another crucial aspect of radiation exposure is a person’s distance from the radiation
source. Radiation exposure decreases as the distance from the source increases. This phenomenon follows an inverse square law (1/d^2). (J. H. Kim 2018)
Ĺ Note
Suppose a medical student is initially one foot away from a radiation source, and their
exposure is measured at 500 mGy/min. If they then move ten feet away from the
source, their exposure would reduce significantly to 5 mGy/min. This example vividly
demonstrates why distance from the source plays a pivotal role in minimizing radiation
exposure.

If you are not scrubbed, the ideal place to stand is as far away from the x-ray source
while making sure you can still see the images and interact with the surgical team.
When discussing the positioning of the C-arm, it’s useful to become familiar with some common
terminology. To improve visualization of the target area, the C-arm can rotate left and right,
and cranially or caudally. All terminology is relative to the radiation source (under
the table) and not the intensifier (above the patient). Two frequently encountered
positions are RAO (right anterior oblique) and LAO (left anterior oblique).

Adverse Outcomes Given Prolonged Radiation Exposure
Limits
Various governing agencies in the US and around the world have established limits on yearly
radiation exposure.
Currently, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Nuclear Regulatory Commissions, and Department of Energy all stipulate a yearly limit of 5,000
mrem/year (50 Sv). [“Radiation In Perspective” (n.d.)](“Information for Radiation Workers,” n.d.)
Some agencies further specify this limit to 1,250 mrem/quarter (12.5 Sv). (“Radiation
Emergency Preparedness and Response - Response | Occupational Safety and Health Administration,” n.d.)

Deterministic versus stochastic radiation eects
Before delving into the various risks associated with radiation exposure, it