D. Infrainguinal
E. No specific term exists
Answer
B. Juxtarenal
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly
5. Two days following an open transperitoneal repair of an infrarenal abdominal aortic
aneurysm, an 81-year-old male with a history of a right colectomy for colon cancer has
bright red blood in his stool. He remains in the ICU with a leukocytosis and appropriately
tender abdomen without peritonitis. What is the next best step in management?
A. Broad spectrum antibiotics and fexible sigmoidoscopy.
B. Broad spectrum antibiotics and CTA.
C. Observation as this is likely related to his previous colon resection.
D. NPO order and immediate return to the operating room.
E. Stool softeners to mitigate the risk of hemorrhoids and anal fissures.

67

Answer
A. Broad spectrum antibiotics and fexible sigmoidoscopy
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly
6. A 70-year-old female is undergoing an endovascular repair of an abdominal aortic
aneurysm in the operating room under general anesthesia and a completion aortogram
was just taken. A late blush is noted in the sac, seemingly arising from a lumbar artery.
What kind of endoleak would this suggest is present?
A. Type Ia endoleak; blood is filling the sac from the proximal extent of the stent graft.
B. Type III endoleak; blood is filling the sac from the middle and can appear to be coming
from a lumbar artery.
C. Type Ib endoleak; blood is filling the sac retrograde from the iliac arteries and so is only
seen with a late aortogram view.
D. Type II endoleak; fow from a lumbar artery would cause a late blush and can be followed
conservatively provided that the sac does not continue to expand.
E. No endoleak.
Answer
D. Type II endoleak; fow from a lumbar artery would cause a late blush
and can be followed conservatively provided that the sac does not continue
to expand.
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly

Operative Footage Questions
To come shortly. Stay tuned!

Introduction
The aorta is invariably the largest arterial conduit in the body, serving as the channel