, reticular veins, and small nonaxial varicose veins less than 6 mm in diameter, sclerotherapy can address both symptomatic and asymptomatic veins. This method involves injecting

166

a sclerosant that damages the endothelial lining of the vein, leading to thrombosis and subsequent fibrosis, effectively eliminating the vein. While liquid sclerotherapy is typically used
for smaller veins, larger varicosities may require foam sclerotherapy, which uses a foam-like
consistency to enhance contact with the vein wall [Azar, Rao, and Oropallo (2022a)](Sidawy
and Perler 2023e).
Interventions for Deep Venous Insuﬀciency: Stenting, Venoplasty, and Valvular
Reconstruction
Due to increased risks and technical challenges associated with the treatment of deep venous
refux, treatment is typically reserved for patients with ulcer recurrence refractory to therapies
targeting superficial/perforator insuﬀciency (Sidawy and Perler 2023e). CEAP C4-C6 patients
without superficial truncal refux or those whose superficial treatment has failed may be offered
stenting to correct deep venous obstruction.
liac and inferior vena cava (IVC) stenting remains somewhat controversial and is typically reserved for a specific subset of patients who are most likely to benefit from the procedure. These
patients often include those with significant venous outfow obstruction, such as those suffering
from May-Thurner syndrome, chronic venous insuﬀciency, or post-thrombotic syndrome that
has not responded adequately to conservative treatments. It is now recognized that asymptomatic venous obstruction is far more common than previously thought, and there remains
debate about which patients are suitable candidates for iliocaval stenting. In appropriately selected patients, iliocaval stenting can provide symptomatic relief with long-term patency rates
>70% and relatively low DVT risk (Hwang et al. 2020a).
Patients with deep venous refux due to congenital, primary, or secondary (post-thrombotic
syndrome following DVT) valvular incompetence may be candidates for valvular reconstruction
if symptoms recur following attempted conservative and/or endovenous therapies for superficial
refux. These patients usually have class