eurysm at this size.
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly
3. A 68-year-old male with history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, tobacco abuse, obesity,
and gout is found to have a 5.9cm infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm with a 21mm
neck, patent common femoral arteries, but highly calcified/nearly occluded bilateral iliac
arteries. Upon discussing repair with him in your surgery clinic, what would you advise
the patient about his repair?
A. He should undergo endovascular repair because there is at least 20mm of neck below the
lowest renal artery before the aneurysm begins.
B. He should undergo endovascular repair with percutaneous access because his common
femoral arteries are widely patent.
C. He should undergo endovascular repair because this will minimize his inpatient stay while
maximizing the primary patency of the stent graft.

66

D. He should undergo open repair because his diseased iliac arteries will preclude safe passage
of sheaths and a device to the level of the aorta.
E. He should undergo open repair because this will minimize his short-term morbidity.
Answer
D. He should undergo open repair because his diseased iliac arteries will
preclude safe passage of sheaths and a device to the level of the aorta.
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly
4. A 78-year-old female is referred by her primary care physician after she was incidentally
found to have a saccular aneurysm immediately distal to her right renal artery, which is
the lower of the bilateral renal arteries. When documenting the location of this aneurysm,
what terminology should be used to label it?
A. Infrarenal
B. Juxtarenal
C. Suprarenal
D. Infrainguinal
E. No specific term exists
Answer
B. Juxtarenal
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly
5. Two days following an open transperitoneal repair of an infrarenal abdominal aortic
aneurysm, an 81-year-old male with a history of a right colectomy for colon cancer has
bright red blood in his stool. He remains in the ICU with a leukocytosis and appropriately
