 index (ABI), Doppler ultrasound,
and angiography to confirm the diagnosis.
 Develop and implement a management plan for patients with CLTI, including
medical, endovascular, or surgical interventions.

Key Facts
1. Chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) refers to a severe and advanced form of
peripheral arterial disease (PAD) characterized by chronic inadequate blood supply
to the lower extremities for greater than 2 weeks.
2. CLTI presents as ischemic rest pain, tissue loss (e.g. ulcers, gangrene),
or both.
3. CLTI is associated with amputation, impaired quality of life, and mortality.
4. Rutherford Classification and Fontaine Grading are classification systems developed
to categorize the degree of severity of CLTI, which also aids in management.
5. Newer classification systems including WiFI (Wound, Ischemia, and Foot Infection)

109

and GLASS (Global Limb Anatomic Staging System) aim to aid in prognostication
and management of CLTI.
Claudication Slide Deck
Please find the slide deck corresponding to this eBook chapter here.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,
noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 45-year-old male with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus presents to the emergency
department with wet gangrene of his first, fourth, and fifth digits of his right lower
extremity. He has a right dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial artery pulse. What level of
amputation is appropriate in this situation?
A. Transmetatarsal amputation
B