 include small, circular holes in the main body of the endograft.
The french word for window is “fenêtre.” When the fenstrations (or windows) are placed in
line with visceral vessel origins, balloon-expandable stents can be used to bridge to the main
endograft to the native renal or mesenteric arteries.
Additional characteristics about fenestrated grafts:
 They are ideal when the inner aortic diameter is small, making for a short distance (<5
mm) between the endograft and native visceral artery.
 They require the pathway between the endograft and the native artery to be close to
perpendicular; that is, the pathway for the stent out of the graft cannot be at too large
of an angle due to risk of stent fracture or kinking.
 The part of the stent inside the endograft must be fared out with a balloon to prevent
endoleak from inside the endograft into the aneurysm sac.
 An of a commercially available fenestrated endograft is the Cook Medical Zenith Fenestrated (ZFen) AAA endograft. Click here to watch an animation of ZFen deployment.
Branched endografts have side branches built-into the main body of the graft in place of
fenestration. These branches extend from the outer body of the main graft towards the target
vessel.
Additional characteristics about branched grafts:
 They require a larger inner aortic diameter for more space between the endograft and
target artery.
 Branches can receive self-expanding or balloon-expandable stents.

196

Common Endovascular Procedures
Vascular surgeons perform a number of endovascular procedures. The most common include
placement of an inferior vena cava (IVC) filter, diagnostic angiograms with angioplasty and
stenting, fistulagrams, endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR), and thrombectomy and thrombolysis. There are a number of basics that trainees should know before starting one of these
procedures.

IVC Filter Placement
 An IVC Filter is a metal cage-like device placed in the IVC to prevent clots from embolizing to the pulmonary vasculature.
 The hook at the superior aspect of the filter is used to aid with retrieval.
 The struts will catch clots and will anchor into the walls of the I