 10 Gy may result
in dermal atrophy, but this may not be evident until more than 10 weeks after exposure.
(Stewart et al. 2012)
This discussion doesn’t cover all possible adverse effects related to skin radiation exposure.
Rather, it provides an overview of common findings based on typical exposure scenarios in
vascular surgery patients. Further information on the effects of single and cumulative radiation
doses on the skin can be found in studies by Stewart ((Stewart et al. 2012)) and Bennardo
((Bennardo et al. 2021)), respectively.

Thyroid Dysfunction, Thyroid Cancer, and Radiation Exposure
It is widely acknowledged that radiation exposure during childhood significantly increases
the risk of developing thyroid cancer. Key risk factors in this context include both the dose
of radiation received and the age at the time of exposure.(Iglesias et al. 2017) However,
when it comes to establishing a similar relationship in adulthood, the evidence has been less
straightforward.
In October 2023, The Journal of Radiation Research published a systematic review
and meta-analysis specifically examining the incidence of thyroid cancer following
radiation exposure in adults. While some studies suggested an increased risk of cancer
in adults exposed to radiation, the relative risk at a dose of 10 mGy (milligray) was deemed
insignificant. In other words, the risk did not show a significant elevation at this particular
dose level.
While a definitive link between radiation exposure and thyroid cancer in adult populations
remains elusive, several studies have hinted at a potential association between low-dose
ionizing radiation and thyroid dysfunction.
 There have been reports of hypothyroidism marked by elevated levels of thyroidstimulating hormone (TSH) and lower-than-average levels of free triiodothyronine (T3)
and thyroxine (T4) compared to unexposed individuals. (Cioﬀ et al. 2020)
Given the potential implications of radiation exposure to thyroid disfunction and cancer, additional research into the long-term effects of ionizing radiation exposure on thyroid function
is warranted. Numerous studies have emphasized the need for further investigation in this
area.

Reproductive Function and Radiation Exposure
One of the significant concerns associated with radiation exposure is its impact on reproductive
health.


In the female reproductive system, ionizing