
Skin necrosis
Nerve compression
Venous compression

Etiology:
Most often, seen at the femoral artery as an access site complication from:
 Failed deployment of a closure device
 Laceration of the artery or branch by an access needle
 Inadequate pressure or length of pressure being held.
Patients who are obese, female, hypertensive or are on anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy
are at higher risk for femoral PSA.
Workup:
 Duplex ultrasound of the site.
 Pulse exam to ensure adequate distal perfusion.
Management:
Management is dependent on size and presentation of the pseudoaneurysm. In the past, all
pseudoaneurysms were treated operatively, but with new advances, minimally invasive techniques have become more common with good outcomes.
 For a small asymptomatic pseudoaneurysm (less than 2cm), an appropriate first step
would be observation and repeat duplex ultrasound in about one month.
 For a persistent pseudoaneurysm after one month, a larger/loculated asymptomatic pseudoaneurysm, or a pseudoaneurysm that presents with minor pain at the site, minimally
invasive intervention with ultrasound guided compression or ultrasound guided thrombin
injection is appropriate.
 For any pseudoaneurysm presenting with persistent hemodynamic instability, limb ischemia, skin necrosis, AV fistula, nerve compression, expanding hematoma, an urgent
operation is required.
 Urgent open repair generally consists of gaining proximal and distal control and then
primary repair of the arterial defect.
 Urgent endovascular management may also be entailed by deploying coils in the sac and
placing a covered stent in the femoral artery, therefore thrombosing the pseudoaneurysm.

202

[Kassem et al. (2013)](Kassem and Elmahdy 2014)(Tulla, Kowalski, and Qaja 2024)
Retroperitoneal Hematoma
A retroperitoneal hematoma is a collection of blood accumulating in the retroperitoneal space
where the external iliac artery travels.
Key points:
 It is a rare complication occurring in about 0.5% of cases.
 Retroperitonaly hematomas are a dreaded complication as they comes with high morbidity and mortality especially if not rapidly diagnosed.
 Retroperitone