 CLTI present with multisegment disease thereby complicating the
clinical decision-making usefulness of TASC recommendations. TASC is more reasonably
useful for assessing lesion-specific device performance.
The consensus was updated in 2007 (TASC II) and included representatives from Australia,
South Africa, and Japan.

Treatment
Treatment of CLTI includes conservative management and invasive intervention. Lifestyle
modification is recommended and highly encouraged and includes smoking cessation, regular
exercise, and a healthy diet to reduce cardiovascular risk factors.

Conservative management
Pharmacotherapy with antiplatelet agents and statins plays a large role in helping prevent the
progression of CLTI. Antiplatelet agents – such as aspirin or clopidogrel, reduce the risk of
blood clots, while statins control cholesterol levels and reduce the progression of atherosclerosis.
In some instances, vasodilators, such as cilostazol, can be utilized to improve blood fow and
relieve symptoms, especially in those individuals experiencing ischemic rest pain.

Invasive management
The mainstay of treatment modality in CLTI is revascularization with endovascular therapy,
surgical bypass, or a combination of both.
Endovascular revascularization is the least invasive approach to opening narrowed or blocked arteries. Using real-time contrast-enhanced images, the surgeon can perform angioplasty (i.e. ballooning of stenosis) stenting, and/or atherectomy (i.e. device mediated removal of the intimal
layer and atherosclerotic material).

123

A surgical bypass, or extra-anatomic bypass, is the surgical creation of a new path for blood
around the area of vessel stenosis/occlusion. Conduits for bypass can be artificial (e.g. PTFE or
dacron grafts) or natural (e.g. autogenous or cadaveric saphenous vein grafts). In severe cases
where limb salvage is not possible or limb-threatening infection persists even after attempts
at revascularization, amputation may be necessary to preserve overall health and quality of
life.
In addition to conservative management and surgical intervention, appropriate wound care
is an important aspect of CLTI treatment. Surgical wound debridement, infection control,
ooading techniques, and daily specialized wound care are integral in promoting healing and
preventing amputation.
It is important to note that