 radiation - alpha, beta, gamma and neutrons
courtesty of Openclipart and Juhele. X-rays have similar penetrance to gamma rays.

Radiation types
Radiation can be broadly categorized into ionizing and non-ionizing forms. This chapter will
focus on ionizing radiation, which is encountered by medical professionals in clinical settings.
Ionizing radiation falls within the higher frequency range of the electromagnetic spectrum. The
commonly discussed types of ionizing radiation include X-rays, alpha particles, beta particles,
gamma rays.

215

Alpha Particles
Alpha particles, despite their high energy, have poor penetrance. As such, they do not penetrate the skin. However, they can be dangerous if inhaled or ingested.

Beta Particles
Beta particles, have slightly more penetration than alpha particles.
They have some ability to penetrate the skin. However, they can be easily blocked by less
dense shielding like aluminum.
Similar to alpha particles, beta particles can also cause harm if ingested or inhaled.

Gamma Rays
Gamma rays possess significantly more energy and can penetrate through the human body
and less dense shielding.
Lead is effective in shielding against gamma rays due to its density. Dense materials
increase the likelihood of radiation interacting with subatomic particles, reducing the rays’
passage through the material.
As gamma rays pass through the body, they cause ionizing damage to tissue and DNA and
should be treated with caution.

X-Rays
X-rays, widely used in healthcare, share similarities with gamma rays in their ability to penetrate tissue.
Their application in medical imaging includes plain X-ray films, CT scans, and fuoroscopy.
Lead is effective in shielding against x-rays due to its density.
The position of the x-ray emitting source of the the C-arm used for endovascular procedures
is at the bottom of the arm, beneath the patient and the operating room table. This is the
location of highest exposure.
As the X-ray source emits radiation, radiation scatter occurs, moving upward and outward
from the source.

216

Terminology
It is imporant to understanding the terminology related to radiation exposure.
 The absorbed dose refers to the energy from ionizing radiation per unit mass of exposed
material, measured in grays (Gy).
 The equivalent dose represents the mean absorbed dose of a specific organ or tissue,
measured in sieverts (Sv).
 The effective dose, also measured