 there is blood
return to ensure the needle or catheter tip are in the true lumen.

203

 Treatment can be conservative in the case of an iatrogenic dissection or treated with
stent placement if the dissection limits blood fow. Intravascular ultrasound can be used
to further assess the dissection.
Acute Thrombosis of Access Vessel
Acute thrombus of the access vessel is when the artery where access is obtained completely
“clots off.” It is an incredibly rare complication caused by incorrect deployment of vascular
closure devices, access site dissection, or occlusive sheath placement in a small or diseased
vessel.

Endovascular Surgical Complications
Atheroembolism
Atheroembolism is the dislodgement of a portion of a cholesterol plaque leading to distal
embolization causing acute thrombosis or partial occlusion.
Key points: (Liew and Bartholomew 2005)
 Generally, when these come from the ascending aorta or arch, they will embolize to
the cerebral and retinal vessels. On the other hand, when an embolus originates in the
thoracic or descending aorta, it will likely embolize to the mesenteric, renal or lower
extremity vessels.
 These emboli will then cause a further infammatory response worsening outcomes.
 Outcomes are dependent on volume and size of emboli and can range from sub-clinical
to fatal.
 Embolization is most common to the skin, kidneys, and GI tract though it is dependent
on the site of the procedure.
 Unfortunately this condition is generally under diagnosed and challenging to treat. Primary prevention is of utmost importance with good surgical technique.
Wire Perforation
Wire perforation occurs when an angiographic wire creates a hole in a vessel.
Key points:
 Incredibly rare but treatable when diagnosed rapidly.
 Occurs when a large stiff hydrophilic wire is passed through a small vessel especially if
not done under fuoroscopic guidance.
 Treatment involves transcatheter embolization of the perforation site.

204

Vessel Rupture
Vessel rupture occurs when a device or balloon is oversized for a vessel and causes a “blowout”
of a vessel.
Key points:
 Rupture can be cause by an oversized balloon or balloon expandable stent,