 the arterial tubing circuit and across a
filter before it reenters the venous circulation. As FDA approval for the device was delivered
in 2016, the technology is less than 10 years old without robust long-term follow up data.
This technique offers a lower perioperative stroke risk than transfemoral stenting, for multiple
reasons including lack of transaortic arch manipulation and great vessel cannulation which can
result in embolus prior to placement of an internal carotid artery embolic protection device.

Optimal Medical Management
Understandably, optimal medical management requires full risk evaluation of the individual
patient in question including other comorbidities, drug allergies, compliance, etc. We have
listed a few broad recommendations to follow that offer general guidance surrounding the
dynamic target of optimal medical management for arterial disease.
Antiplatelet Therapy
 ASA offers a 22% risk reduction in major vascular events with no difference in protection
based on dosage (81 versus 325 mg).
 Clopidogrel can be used as an adjunct or alternative to ASA, but the added benefit from
dual antiplatelet combination in asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis is unproven.
Anticoagulants
 Only useful for prevention of cardioembolic strokes due to arrhythmia or prosthetic valve.

56

Hypertension Treatment
 Recommended blood pressure range of <130/80 with individual antihypertensive regimen
based on other comorbidities and patient risk factors.
Diabetic Control
 In accordance with best practice for diabetes management, the patient’s hemoglobin A1c
should be <7.0
Smoking Cessation
 Treatments offered include nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), varenicline or bupropion
as first line agents.
Hyperlipidemia Management
 Regimen goals of LDL <100mg/dl, or <70mg/dl depending on risk profile.

Outcomes and Surveillance
Asymptomatic carotid stenosis
 The historically touted Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS) demonstrated that patients with >60% carotid stenosis who underwent CEA benefited significantly from stroke risk reduction at 5 years (5.1% for CEA vs. 11% for optimal medical
therapy consisting of aspirin alone).
