 Kowalski, and Qaja 2024)
Retroperitoneal Hematoma
A retroperitoneal hematoma is a collection of blood accumulating in the retroperitoneal space
where the external iliac artery travels.
Key points:
 It is a rare complication occurring in about 0.5% of cases.
 Retroperitonaly hematomas are a dreaded complication as they comes with high morbidity and mortality especially if not rapidly diagnosed.
 Retroperitoneal hematomas occur when the arterial stick in the artery during groin
puncture is performed too high, above the level of the inferior epigastric artery.
 This leads to extravasation of blood into the retroperitoneal space after sheath removal.
 Retroperitoneal hematomas can usually can be treated with a closure device if diagnosed
intra operatively or a covered stent from the contralateral side.
Arteriovenous (AV) Fistula
An arteriovenous fistula is an aberrant connection between an artery and a vein. Although
commonly formed surgically for hemodialysis access, they can be caused iatrogenically during
arterial access for endovascular intervention.
Key points:
 They are rare and occur in less than 1% of groin access cases.
 Occur during inadvertent puncture of the deep femoral artery and deep femoral vein.
 Usually no intervention is needed.
Dissection
An arterial dissection is the separation of the layers of the arterial wall.
Key points:
 May occur naturally (often secondary to hypertension) or iatrogenically (in the setting
of arterial puncture). This most often occurs in the setting of a posteriorly lying plaque
in the artery where the wire can separate the posterior layers.
 To prevent dissection, do not apply too much forward pressure when advancing a wire
during initial arterial access. Do not inject fuid (saline or contrast) unless there is blood
return to ensure the needle or catheter tip are in the true lumen.

203

 Treatment can be conservative in the case of an iatrogenic dissection or treated with
stent placement if the dissection limits blood fow. Intravascular ultrasound can be used
to further assess the dissection.
Acute Thrombosis of Access Vessel
Acute thrombus of the access vessel is when the artery where access is obtained completely
