illary artery in the upper
extremity, as well as the popliteal and dorsal pedal arteries in the leg. The further away the
vessel is from the aorta, the smaller the vessel lumen, and hence the smaller the diameter of
devices that can be utilized in that artery.
The CFA is referred to as the external iliac artery proximal to the inguinal ligament and the
superficial femoral artery (SFA) distal to the branching of the profunda femoris artery (PFA).
The anatomic relationship of the CFA to the surrounding vessels can be remembered with
the mnemonic “NAVeL”, femoral nerve, artery, vein, and lymph nodes from lateral to medial.
The Femoral Triangle consists of these three vessels and nerves surrounded by the inguinal
ligament superiorly, sartorius muscle laterally, and the adductor longus medially.

Figure 1: Femoral triangle anatomy courtesty of S Bhimji, MD.
Correct anatomic positioning for cannulation of the CFA can be achieved by palpating the point
of maximum pulsation inferior to the inguinal ligament, a structure identifiable by tracing along
the facial plane between the anterior superior iliac spine and pubic symphysis. The following
imaging modalities assist with anatomic positioning:
 Fluoroscopic guidance: cannulation of the CFA should be attempted at the level of
the middle to inferior femoral head.
 Ultrasound (US) guidance: identification of the PFA ensures cannulation is attempted of the CFA in place of the SFA. At the level where the great saphenous vein
joins the femoral vein, US will show one large vessel surrounded by two smaller vessels,
which can be remembered as the “Mickey Mouse Sign.”

183

Ď Tip
An in depth review of lower limb anatomy can be found in the APDVS Claudication
Chapter or here.

Ultrasound Guided Access
There is emerging evidence to suggest real time identification of anatomic structures with US
guidance may decrease the risk of access-related complications. A summary to the steps of
US-guided access of the CFA are included below.
Identifying the correct vessel:
1. Obtain baseline peripheral pulses.
2. Obtain a micropuncture kit, containing a hollow needle, guidewire, and catheter
3. Using the