, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,
noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 75-year-old male smoke presents with recent visual changes to his right eye that occurred yesterday. The patient reports a shading of his visual field that resulted in momentary monocular blindness followed by return to normal vision. He has a carotid duplex
showing >50% diameter reduction to his right internal carotid artery and >80% stenosis
to his left internal carotid artery. What treatment should be offered to his patient?
A. Emergent DC cardioversion to treat any underlying arrythmia.
B. Left carotid endarterectomy with shunt placement.
C. Left carotid TCAR.
D. Right carotid endarterectomy.

47

E. Placement on Apixaban and measurement of PF4 with medical management.
Answer
D. Right carotid endarterectomy
Discussion: The patient has evidence of amaurosis fugax with temporary monocular blindness as a sign of symptomatic right internal carotid artery disease. His left carotid artery
is in a high-grade range and therefore is lower risk of stroke than the contralateral symptomatic lesion. There should be no immediate surgical treatment of the asymptomatic
left carotid lesion. There is no evidence that the patient has an underlying arrythmia
that needs cardioversion and medical management with Apixaban and PF4 levels are
unrelated to this patient’s current pathology.
2. A 50-year-old female patient with >80% right internal carotid artery stenosis presents
to clinic for her first postoperative visit after carotid endarterectomy (CEA). She has
no interval neurologic events since her discharge, has a soft neck with a clean