 Optimization
The radiation dose delivered, particularly for intraoperative exposures, should be optimized
to be as low as possible while still achieving adequate image quality for the procedure and
decision making.
This includes fuoroscopy techniques such as reducing the time under fuoroscopy by using
pulsed fuoroscopy as opposed to continuous scanning, collimating the X-ray beam to
the area of interest and narrowing the beam to only scan structures necessary, adjusting
the frame rate of fuoroscopy images when temporal resolution is not necessary.
It also includes effective preoperative planning, including properly positioning the patient
for optimal imaging to reduce repeated attempts, and planning with previous imaging to ensure
good understanding of the vascular anatomy and to form a procedural plan prior to exposing
the patient to additional radiation.

The ALARA Principles
ALARA stands for “As Low As Reasonably Possible,” and refers to the balance between
minimizing radiation exposure to the patient without compromising the quality of care.
The energy of the X-rays: Higher energy X-rays will have greater penetrance and pass
through thicker and deeper tissue more easily. Energy is typically adjusted during the procedure to optimize for the depth of the structures being imaged.
The duration of exposure: The dose of radiation delivered to the patient and the OR staff
is directly correlated with the duration of exposure. This is why vascular surgeons try to limit
the amount of time under fuoroscopy to the minimum required.
The distance from the source: The intensity of radiation exposure decreases with distance
from the emitting source in an inverse square relationship. The patient and surgeons at bedside
and closest to the C-arm, therefore, receive significantly greater doses of radiation as compared
to OR staff further away.

Patient Education and Informed Consent:
Patients should be informed about the risks of exposure to ionizing radiation, the benefits of
the procedure, and the efforts made to reduce total dosage.
Patients should provide informed consent before any intervention whenever possible, and
should be encouraged to ask questions and voice concerns prior to the initiation of treatment.


Patient monitoring and dose recording:
During fuoroscopy-guided procedures, patient radiation doses should be monitored and
recorded accurately to help understand the patient’s cumulative radiation exposure.
In a hybrid OR, the total radiation is recorded on the large screen. If not, you can always ask
the hybrid room technician.

Radiation shielding:
The use of personal protective devices made of dense materials, such