 to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 45-year-old male with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus presents to the emergency
department with wet gangrene of his first, fourth, and fifth digits of his right lower
extremity. He has a right dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial artery pulse. What level of
amputation is appropriate in this situation?
A. Transmetatarsal amputation
B. Below-knee amputation
C. Through-knee amputation
D. Above-knee amputation
Answer
A. Transmetatarsal amputation (TMA).
Discussion: This patient requires removal of the affected toes. However, if only the toes
are removed, the remaining toes are subject to ulcer formation and or infection. If 3

110

or more toes are removed, the stability of the foot can be compromised and thus the
correct amputation for him is a transmetatarsal amputation (TMA). He has adequate
distal perfusion with palpable pedal pulses, and therefore, he will likely be able to heal
from the amputation. A TMA will remove infected tissue and will provide him with
the greatest amputation stump length. A below-knee amputation (BKA), through-knee
amputation (TKA), and above-knee amputation (AKA) are too extreme for the burden of
foot infection. Furthermore, the other alternatives are associated with greater morbidity
and amount of energy required to ambulate, with the degree of severity increasing the
more proximal the amputation (AKA is worse than BKA which is worse that TMA).
Lower extremity amputation: techniques and results. In: Cronenwett JL, Johnson KW,
eds. Rutherford’s Vascular Surgery. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014.
2. A 72-year-old male with diabetes presents to his PCP’s oﬀce for a nonhealing ulcer to the
plantar aspect of his right foot. Laboratory results and x-ray imaging are unremarkable.
On examination, you note that his pulses are nonpalpable. Doppler examination reveals
monophasic signals. He has necrotic, nonviable tissue to the base of the wound. There is
no erythema