 the ratio
of blood pressure in the lower legs to the blood pressure in the arms. Abnormal ABIs have
been shown to have high specificity with identifying PAD. Patients who have claudication
usually have ABI ranges from 0.5 to 0.9. Pulse volume recordings (PVR) use pressure
cuffs to record the shape of a pulse. The type of waveform provides important information about the characteristics of blood fow. Waveforms can be used to diagnose and
monitor arterial diseases, assess the severity of stenosis, and determine the effectiveness
of treatment interventions. This patient likely has claudication based on the history and
symptoms. The first non-invasive testing to confirm the diagnosis would be ABI/PVR.
While a CTA would provide helful information with regards to arterial anatomy and the
extend of calcification, it cannot provide the physiologic information that one would ob-

92

tains an ABI/PVR. Furthermore, CTA requires contrast and radiation exposure. While
used in measuring an ABI, a Doppler probe is not nearly as sensitive in identifying PAD
and does not provide data helpful in creating a management plan. A Duplex Ultrasound
would provide physiologic information as to the burden of disease. However, it is highly
operator dependent and requires more resources. It may be considered as a second line
investigation. While an angiogram is the gold-standard, it is an invasive technique that
requires the use of contrast. As such, it is not a first line investigation.
6. What would be the first step in treating this patient’s symptoms?
A. Angiogram to identify targets for open surgical bypass.
B. Angiogram with angioplasty/stent of any occluded vessels.
C. Prescribe Cilostazol.
D. Ensure medication optimization for his hypertension and hyperlipidemia, smoking cessation counseling, and exercise regimen.
E. No treatments at this time, continue to monitor and come back to clinic in 3 months.
Answer
D. Ensure medication optimization for his hypertension and hyperlipidemia,
smoking cessation counseling, and exercise regimen.
Discussion: The mainstay of treatment for claudication is conservative management, including medical optimization and lifestyle modification. The patient has hypertension
and hyperlipidemia. He should be on appropriate antihypertensive to control the blood
pressure. With regard to medical optimization, it is