 the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,
noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 77-year-old female with a past medical history of CAD, CHF with an EF of 14%,
COPD, and a prior total thyroidectomy comes in for evaluation of carotid stenosis. She
had a TIA with a right-sided facial droop two weeks ago and was briefy admitted to
this hospital. She had a carotid US and was found to have an 85% left carotid stenosis.
Which of the following treatment modalities would be best suited for the patient?
A. Open carotid endarterectomy
B. Transcarotid Artery Revascularization (TCAR)
C. No intervention because of her age
D. No intervention because of her medical comorbidities

179

Answer
B. Transcarotid Artery Revascularization (TCAR)
Discussion: Considering the patient has a symptomatic carotid artery lesion, her disease
warrants treatment. This rules out answers C and D. TCAR is a safe, minimally invasive
surgical technique used to treat carotid artery disease. TCAR and other endovascular
procedures are often a safer option in the elderly, medically comorbid patients, especially
those who have a higher risk of complications (such as those with prior neck surgery).
In addition, TCAR can be performed under local anesthesia with sedation. This makes
TCAR a safer option relative to open CEA, making B a better answer than C.
2. A 66-year-old male presents