 as cataracts and reproductive dysfunction.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,

210

noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 45 year old vascular surgeon with 10 years of professional practice is preparing to
perform a left upper extremity fistulogram due to concerns for prolonged bleeding after
hemodialysis. What is the most appropriate PPE that the student should wear during
the case?
A. Full leaded face shield, lead apron, and personal radiation badge
B. Lead apron alone
C. Leaded safety glasses
D. Lower half of a 2-piece lead apron and thyroid shield
E. Lead apron, leaded safety glasses
Answer
A. Full leaded face shield, lead apron, and personal radiation badge
Discussion: The most appropriate PPE includes a full leaded face shield, lead apron,
and radiation badge making answer a the correct answer. This will provide the most
significant protection to the head and neck as well as vital organs of the body during
the procedure. The radiation badge will help with long-term protection as it allows
for cumulative tracking of exposure. A lead apron alone and or lead glasses alone is
inadequate for optimal protection making answers b, c, and d incorrect. A full-face
shield will be of greater protection than glasses which makes answer e incorrect.
2. A 25 year old medical student has been invited to observe endovascular stent placement
for an infrarenal AAA. In addition to wearing appropriate PPE, what can the medical
student do to reduce their exposure during the case?
