osis presents with only three symptoms including: stroke,
transient ischemic attack (TIA) and amaurosis fugax (transient retinal ischemia).
3. Risk factors include: age, smoking, CAD, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia
and genetic/family history.
4. Seminal studies include ACAS and NASCET. They define an 11% five-year risk of
stroke for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis (>60%) and 24% two-year risk of
stroke for symptomatic disease (>70%), respectively.
5. The CREST landmark study associates carotid artery stenting with higher perioperative risk of stroke and carotid endarterectomy (CEA) with higher risk of myocardial infarction (MI) in symptomatic patients.
6. Carotid artery stenting (CAS) is indicated for recurrent stenosis after CEA, neck
immobility, high carotid bifurcation, contralateral occlusion, high risk open surgical
candidate due to cardiopulmonary comorbidity and neck radiation.

46

7. Transcarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) is available for direct common
carotid delivery of stent while avoiding aortic arch manipulation and providing
embolic protection through fow reversal.
8. There is a marginal benefit for intervention for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis
patients with significant cardiopulmonary disease due to risks of associated perioperative events.
Carotid Disease Slide Deck
Please find the slide deck corresponding to this eBook chapter here.
Please find a video recording of Dr. Kokkosis and Dr. Malinowski’s lecture using the
above slide deck here.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,
noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the