 used to treat carotid artery disease. TCAR and other endovascular
procedures are often a safer option in the elderly, medically comorbid patients, especially
those who have a higher risk of complications (such as those with prior neck surgery).
In addition, TCAR can be performed under local anesthesia with sedation. This makes
TCAR a safer option relative to open CEA, making B a better answer than C.
2. A 66-year-old male presents to the emergency room one week after a percutaneous coronary intervention via right groin access. He reports that over the last few days, he has
noticed a bulge in his groin and when he touches it, it is painful and has a pulsatile
nature. A complete exam reveals a pulsatile, tender mass in the right groin with no skin
changes, but with a bruit on auscultation. Which of the following complications is NOT
associated with this patient’s diagnosis?
A. Embolization to the lower extremity
B. Rupture of the mass
C. True femoral artery aneurysm
D. Compression of the femoral vein
E. Gangrene of the toes
Answer
C. True femoral artery aneurysm
Discussion: In the post-intervention patient who presents with a pulsatile tender mass at
the intervention site with a bruit on auscultation, the most likely diagnosis is a femoral
artery pseudoaneurysm. Risks of an untreated PSA include embolic events, distal ischemia including gangrene, rupture of the PSA, skin necrosis, and compression of surrounding structures including the femoral vein and nerve. Because a PSA is an outpouching of only 1 or 2 of the layers of the arterial wall, a true aneurysm (outpouching of all
three layers of the artery, intima, media, and adventitia) is not associated with a femoral
PSA.
3. A 42-year-old patient with a history of an arterial thrombus four years ago presents to the
ER with severe right lower extremity pain. A CTA is obtained showing no atherosclerotic
disease but with acute thrombus along the distal SFA and popliteal artery. You take the
patient to the operating room for a lower extremity angiogram. Which catheter would
be