oral Artery (CFA): The common femoral artery is a large, thick-walled
artery located in the groin. It is a continuation of the external iliac artery and bifurcates
into the deep femoral artery (profunda femoris) and the superficial femoral artery.
 Superficial Femoral Artery (SFA): The superficial femoral artery is the largest
branch of the common femoral artery. It descends along the anterior and medial aspect of the thigh and enters the adductor canal. As it descends, it eventually becomes
the popliteal artery at the level of the knee joint.
 Profunda Femoris (Deep Femoral) Artery (PFA): The profunda femoris artery,
also known as the deep femoral artery, is a significant branch of the common femoral
artery. It typically arises about 1 to 2 cm below the inguinal ligament. The profunda
femoris artery primarily supplies the muscles of the posterior and deep thigh, including
the quadriceps muscles. It is also an important collateral pathway for blood fow in
cases of arterial obstruction or occlusion in the lower extremity distal to the SFA/PFA
bifurcation.
 Popliteal Artery: The popliteal artery is located behind the knee joint and is a continuation of the superficial femoral artery. It provides blood supply to the muscles and
structures in the popliteal fossa and gives rise to several branches, including the anterior
tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal arteries.
 Anterior Tibial Artery (AT): The anterior tibial artery is the first branch off of
the popliteal artery. It is NOT part of the tibioperoneal trunk (only includes the PT
and peroneal arteries. The AT passes from behind the knee through the interosseous
membrane of the leg and descends through the anterior compartment of the leg. It can
be visualized as the most lateral tibial vessel during lower extremity angiogram run-offs.
The AT runs along the front of the tibia and crosses the ankle joint to become the dorsalis
pedis artery, supplying blood to the dorsum (top) of the foot.
 Posterior Tibial Artery (PT): The posterior tibial artery is another branch of the
popliteal artery. Once the