’s baseline skin color. Loss of sensation and more specifically loss of fine touch and
proprioception should be evaluated. Muscle tenderness, particularly in the calf when a lower
extremity is involved indicates advanced ischemia. Finally, a vascular exam with a doppler
should be performed and can be both diagnostic and reveal the level of occlusion.
The gold standard of classifying ALI of the lower extremity and determining need for intervention is based on this combination of sensory/motor clinical findings and a vascular exam with
doppler findings.

138

As indicated in table 1 below, patients who are classified as Class 2 or above will
require surgical intervention.
Timing of treatment is an important consideration; patients who fall under class 2a are
marginally threatened and do not require immediate intervention versus those who fall under class 2b and 3.


Imaging may be utilized in the diagnosis of ALI cases that do not require immediate intervention and transport to the operating room.
CT angiography is the imaging modality of choice as it is easily and quickly accessible in most
emergency departments; CTA reads can aid in both diagnosis and preoperative planning.
Ultrasound may also be useful in certain instances such as rapid, bedside imaging.
Transfemoral angiography or angiography through an alternative access vessel site is typically
utilized at the beginning of an endovascular procedure for intraoperative planning once a
diagnosis of ALI has been established.

Treatment
Initial management
AAs mentioned in the previous section, treatment and timing of treatment for ALI depends
on the Rutherford class. However, there is a universal set of things that should be done for
any patient regardless of their class. Initiation of systemic anticoagulation with heparin or a

139

direct thrombin inhibitor in the case of a heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is always
the first step in management. Heparin may even be started during the diagnostic work-up if
there is a high clinical suspicion of ALI. Initial labs that should be ordered include a CBC,
CMP, baseline fibrinogen, and a type and screen.

Operative management
As far as surgical options go, ALI can be managed with endovascular surgery, open surgery,
or through a hybrid approach. The algorithm above shows considerations for when to pursue
an endovascular vs.