 of minimizing the risk of perioperative stroke. This patient
has asymptomatic bilateral severe carotid disease (right occlusion and left >80% stenosis). Therefore, to reduce the risk of perioperative stroke, current guidelines recommend
carotid revascularization prior or concomitant with the CABG. The patient does carry
one high risk criterion for TCAR (coronary disease requiring revascularization), however
this should not be performed after the CABG. Dual antiplatelet therapy is indicated in
the event this patient undergoes carotid stenting, however medical management should
not be the only management of his carotid disease. Lastly, anticoagulation has no role
in atherosclerotic disease, such as carotid disease.
6. A 55-year-old woman has a past medical history of coronary artery disease status post
coronary stenting in 2019, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and previous smoking history
of 60 pack-years. Her cardiologist sends her for a carotid duplex which demonstrates a
50-69% carotid stenosis on the left side, and mild atherosclerosis on the right side. She
denies any prior signs or symptoms of stroke or transient ischemic attack. How should
this patient’s carotid disease be managed?

50

A. Left carotid endarterectomy, along with aspirin/statin therapy.
B. Left transfemoral carotid stent, along with dual antiplatelet/statin therapy.
C. Aspirin and statin therapy only, and routine surveillance carotid duplexes.
D. Aspirin, statin therapy, blood pressure management, and routine surveillance carotid
duplexes.
E. No further management is indicated.
Answer
D. Aspirin, statin therapy, blood pressure management, and routine surveillance carotid duplexes.
Discussion: This patient has asymptomatic 50-69% left carotid stenosis with the associated risk factors of vascular disease which include hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and
smoking history. Medical therapy needs to be employed to reduce these factors, thus a
single antiplatelet, statin, and blood pressure medication are indicated. Fortunately, the
patient is not a current smoker, however if she was, then smoking