well-formed collateralization.



Acute Limb Ischemia (ALI)
Gowri Gowda, MD, Pavan Guduri, MD, Jonathan Cardella, MD, FRCS.

Note
By the end of this chapter, students will:





Define acute limb ischemia (ALI) and summarize its etiology and pathophysiology.
Identify the clinical features and diagnostic criteria used to diagnose ALI.
Elaborate on the complications and potential consequences of untreated ALI.
Outline a comprehensive history and physical examination to evaluate patients with
suspected ALI.
 Develop and implement a management plan for patients with ALI, including medical, endovascular, or surgical interventions.
Key Facts
1. Acute Limb Ischemia (ALI) refers to a vascular emergency that can lead to limb
loss and death if not treated in a timely manner.
2. History and clinical examination is crucial in the workup of ALI as patients can
present with a wide range of neurovascular symptoms.
3. Rutherford Classification is a classification system developed to categorize the degree of severity of ALI and guide management and treatment.
4. Treatment of ALI ranges from medical management, endovascular surgery, open
surgery and hybrid open/endovascular procedures depending on the severity of
disease.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,

131

noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 61-year-old man with a history of heavy smoking, hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
and peripheral arterial disease with intermittent claudication presents to the ED with 3
hours of severe, acute-onset pain