the first step in management. Heparin may even be started during the diagnostic work-up if
there is a high clinical suspicion of ALI. Initial labs that should be ordered include a CBC,
CMP, baseline fibrinogen, and a type and screen.

Operative management
As far as surgical options go, ALI can be managed with endovascular surgery, open surgery,
or through a hybrid approach. The algorithm above shows considerations for when to pursue
an endovascular vs. open approach.
Surgical Revascularization
Surgical revascularization options include catheter embolectomy/thrombectomy, surgical bypass, endarterectomy, and hybrid procedures if indicated.
Embolectomy/thrombectomy with a Fogarty embolectomy catheter has remained the gold
standard for treatment of both acute and chronic thromboembolic disease. The use of a Fogarty
embolectomy catheter requires a surgical cutdown depending on the location of obstruction,
control of infow and outfow branches, therapeutic anticoagulation, and an arteriotomy. After
the arteriotomy is made, the catheter is passed both proximally and distally until all of the
thrombus is removed and there is confirmation of pulsatile infow and distal back-bleeding.
The last step is an on-table angiogram to confirm the patency of the treated vessels.
Arterial bypass is an option in cases where catheter thrombectomy/endovascular intervention fails or when a patient has known PAD and is presenting with an acute-on chronic picture
as it may provide a more long-term solution.
Thromboendarterectomy is typically performed as part of a hybrid procedure in cases
of ALI. It is often utilized to improve fow in cases of common femoral artery acute in situ
thrombosis in chronic atherosclerotic disease, to collaterals, and to infow and outfow of bypass
graft anastomoses, An example of a case utilizing a hybrid approach would be if a patient
presented with ALI and was found to have a bypass graft occlusion. The occlusion is treated
with a traditional embolectomy using a Fogarty balloon and a common femoral endarterectomy
is additionally performed to improve graft infow.
Endovascular Management
Endovascular surgery for the management of ALI provides minimally invasive options