Approach to Vascular Patient

25

Social Determinants of Vascular Health
Abena Appah-Sampong, MD, Ezra Schwartz, MD,CM, MS, Sharif Ellozy, MD.

Note
By the end of this chapter, students will:
 Review terms important to the discussion about social determinants of health.
 Be able to predict relevant questions to ask patients when obtaining a social history.
 Relate the importance of a thorough social history to the incidence, morbidity, and
mortality of vascular disease.
 Recognize opportunities for one’s biases to impact quality of care.
Key Facts
1. Racial and ethnic minorities encounter social determinants of health and systemic
racism that exacerbate the incidence, prevalence, and outcomes of many vascular
diseases.
2. Addressing the challenges of healthcare deserts, particularly in rural areas, is vital
for ensuring equitable access to vascular surgery care.
3. The underrepresentation of women in vascular surgery clinical trials highlights the
imperative for concerted efforts to address gender disparities, enhance inclusion,
and ensure findings are generalizable to broader populations.
4. Many veterans face socioeconomic, systemic, and mental health challenges stemming from their military service that challenge the management of chronic and
complex vascular diseases.

26

Introduction
“Do we not always find the diseases of the populace traceable to defects in society?” - Rudolf
Virchow
Multiple studies have demonstrated significant disparities exist across the spectrum of vascular
disease including prevalence, treatment, and disease outcomes. Furthermore, it has been
demonstrated that social determinants of health (SDoH), comprising multiple factors including
patient socioeconomic status, race or ethnicity, gender, and geographic location, can have
potent effects on health outcomes. There are some estimates that SDoH account for 8090 percent of the modifiable contributors to healthy outcomes for a population, and must
be addressed in order to rectify persistent healthcare disparities. (Remington, Catlin, and
Gennuso 2015)
Vascular surgeons treat patients with advanced atherosclerosis and diabetes, which are diseases that disproportionately affect vulnerable and socioeconomically disadvantaged patients.
Given this reality, it is important for vascular surgeons to have a strong foundational understanding of the social determinants of health and health disparities that lead to unequal care
among patients. This textbook chapter does not intend to be comprehensive, but rather