
suggest that some blood is able to fow past the obstruction during systole but encounters
resistance during diastole.
 Monophasic Waveform:
 A monophasic waveform consists of a single, continuous fow signal that moves in one
direction. It typically lacks a distinct reverse or “refected” fow signal.
 Clinical Significance: Monophasic waveforms are often seen in arteries downstream from
significant stenosis or occlusion. In these cases, there is limited or no backfow during
diastole (the relaxation phase of the cardiac cycle). They are commonly found in patients
with advanced peripheral arterial disease (PAD) or severe arterial blockages, suggestive
of reduced perfusion to the tissues served by the artery.

103

 Flat-line:
 A fat waveform (i.e. no wave) does not necessarily indicate no blood fow. A fat wave
form simply refects the lack of pulsatile blood fow.

Doppler
Doppler devices (handheld or otherwise) provide similar information to PVR studies. Instead
of providing a visual representation of pulsatile fow, Doppler signals (sounds) are an auditory
representation of fow. A triphasic pulse generates a triphasic signal (repeated sound), a
biphasic pule a biphasic signal, and a monophasic pulse a monophasic signal.
Ď Tip
Here is a video that demonstrates how to use a doppler probe and the signals associated
with each waveform type. You can learn more about doppler probes and waveforms here.

Duplex Ultrasonography
Duplex ultrasonography (US) is another non-invasive imaging modality that can evaluate a
patient’s blood fow by measuring the speed at which blood travels through the vessel. In
this way, a patient’s hemodynamics can be assessed by identifying the location and degree of
stenosis. Other imaging modalities such as a CT angiogram or invasive angiograms can also
evaluate blood fow to the lower extremities.
A hematologic evaluation (including CBC, fasting blood glucose, creatinine, fasting lipid profile and urinalysis) is recommended in order to identify any associated comorbidities such as
diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and chronic kidney disease that may also need to be addressed.
If patients have normal ABIs and pulse exams, it is