 minutes of supervised walking exercise (at least 3 times a week)

Optimization of cardiovascular risk factors:
Hypertension - Use of antihypertensive medications - Identify any underlying etiology of
hypertension (ie renal artery stenosis, stressors)
Hyperlipidemia - Control of cholesterol levels - Diet/exercise modification - Use of medications: i.e. statins, anti-platelet agents
Diabetes mellitus - Control of blood glucose levels - Diet/exercise modification - Medications
(i.e. antihyperglycemics)
Smoking Cessation

Pain Management
Anti-infammatories (ie acetaminophen, ibuprofen)
Cilostazol

105

Outcomes
When treated appropriately, most patients with claudication will not experience limb loss.
Only 1-3% of claudicants develop critical limb ischemia and the complications associated with
more severe PAD. While the majority of patients (70-80%) have stable claudication symptoms,
approximately 20-30% of patients experience a worsening of their claudication. In terms of
overall morbidity and mortality, patients with claudication have worse overall outcomes than
the general population. 20% of patients with claudication will experience either a myocardial
infarction (MI) or cerebrovascular accident (CVA) within their lifetime. Moreover, patients
with diagnosis of claudication have a 5-year mortality rate of 10-15% due to the comorbidities
associated with vascular disease. (Conte et al. 2015a)

Teaching Case
Scenario
73 year old male with past medical history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes
presents to clinic for pain in his lower extremities. Of note, he has smoked roughly one pack of
cigarettes a day since he was 20 years old. He states that it is diﬀcult for him to walk 3 blocks
without having to stop which he finds particularly annoying. When asked where it hurts, he
starts grabbing his calves. He describes an achy, cramping, and pain in his calves whenever he
walks, mostly on the right side. He denies any new sores or wounds that are not healing.

Exam
HEENT: pupils equal round reactive to light,