 is not the cause of peripheral disease.
The other options of migraines, BPH, glaucoma have no known associations with PAD.
7. A 74-year-old female with a past medical history of IDDM with ESRD on dialysis, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, and previous MI is referred to you for evaluation of
crampy calf pain for the last 2 months with onset upon physical exertion. It has since
progressed to pain at rest. You perform ABIs which reveal critical limb ischemia. Which
of the following will you most likely observe when performing preoperative imaging of
this patient prior to infrapopliteal bypass?
A. Critical occlusion of only the medial and lateral geniculate arteries.
B. Loss of enhancement in the region of the popliteal artery but reconstitution showing
good distal vessel runoff.
C. Enhancement in the peroneal artery contributing to pedal circulation.
D. Complete lack of runoff past the region of the Hunter’s canal.
E. Full enhancement in the posterior tibial artery ending in the region of the medial malleolus.
Answer
C. Enhancement in the peroneal artery contributing to pedal circulation.
Discussion: Because of its location in the deep compartments of the lower leg, the peroneal
artery becomes the most likely artery to remain patent in diabetic patients with vascular
disease. Therefore, when performing preoperative imaging to plan an infrapopliteal bypass, a more common target site for anastomosis is the peroneal artery. It is important
to remember that it is necessary for the peroneal artery to have patency to the anterior
or posterior tibial artery to perfuse the entire foot. Choice B is incorrect because this is

114

more of a presentation in a patient with acute occlusion of only the popliteal artery, as
in a posterior knee dislocation. Patients with vascular disease tend to have more distal
vessels affected before proximal. Choice A is incorrect because the geniculate arteries
themselves are collaterals. Although there is a chance that these will be affected by vasculopathy, it is unlikely that only they will be affected. D is a representation of imaging
in a patient with femoral artery disease. Choice E is a scenario that would rarely ever
occur without proximal tibial artery being