 penetrate the arterial wall and become oxidized. These
oxidized lipids trigger an infammatory response. The body’s immune system responds to the
infammatory signals by sending white blood cells (macrophages) to the site. These cells engulf
the oxidized lipids and form foam cells within the arterial wall. The infammation leads to
the proliferation of smooth muscle cells. Over time, the combination of lipids, immune cells,
and smooth muscle cell proliferation results in the formation of atherosclerotic plaques. These
plaques narrow the arterial lumen, restricting blood fow. The build-up of plaques can lead to
stiffening and loss of elasticity in the arterial walls, further diminishing the artery’s ability to
dilate and maintain adequate blood fow.
As the arterial narrowing progresses, blood fow to the downstream tissues (e.g., muscles,
nerves, and skin in the lower extremities) becomes compromised. This can lead to ischemia,

96

which manifests as claudication – a symptom characterized by intermittent pain, cramping,
and fatigue in the muscles during physical activity that resolves once at rest. In severe cases,
atherosclerosis can lead to critical limb threatening ischemia (CLTI), a condition marked by
severe arterial blockages and tissue damage. CLTI can result in non-healing ulcers, gangrene,
and, in the absence of intervention, limb amputation. Atherosclerotic plaques are also prone
to rupture or ulceration, exposing their contents to the bloodstream. This can lead to the
formation of blood clots (thrombosis) or embolization of plaque fragments to smaller arteries,
causing acute blockages that may lead to acute limb ischemia (ALI). CLTI and ALI will be
discussed in more detail in the subsequent PAD chapters.
Ĺ Note
The following lipid levels are considered to be “good” in healthy people:
 Total cholesterol: Levels below 200 mg/dL (5.2 mmol/L)
 LDL cholesterol: Levels below 130 mg/dL (3.4 mmol/L)
 HDL cholesterol: Levels above 40 mg/dL (1 mmol/L) in men and above 50 mg/dL
(1.3 mmol/L) in women
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) standards of care for diabetes recommend
that