 PAD, even after controlling for traditional cardiovascular risk
factors. Prevalence of PAD among other racial and ethnic groups is less documented, but
limited evidence suggests higher rates of PAD among Cuban populations especially when
compared to other Hispanic and Latinx groups. Risk factor control and preventative measures
are important management tools to prevent the progression of PAD to critical limb threatening
ischemia (CLTI) and limb loss. However, Black and Hispanic patients are more likely to present
with hypercholesterolemia but less likely to be prescribed an aspirin or statin. (Allison et al.
2023)
Looking at PAD outcomes, studies have found that patients identifying as Black have nearly
twofold greater rate of leg amputation, even after controlling for relevant confounders. Additionally, Black patients who undergo amputation are less likely to have any limb-related
admission, suggesting less aggressive limb salvage among this population. Higher rates of
diabetes and deep soft tissue infection are strongly correlated with the higher burden of amputation in Black patients. (Hackler, Hamburg, and White Solaru 2021)
Due to structural racism, racial and ethnic minority patients are often disproportionately
burdened with socioeconomic barriers. One study evaluating the etiology of health care access
among Hispanic patients found that Hispanic patients were more likely to delay medical care
for socioeconomic reasons including inability to afford costs, time away from employment, and
childcare issues. (Bazikian et al. 2023)

Access and Care Delivery:
Millions of Americans live in communities considered ‘healthcare deserts,’ where they lack adequate access to important healthcare services including primary care, hospitals, emergency services, pharmacies, trauma centers, and low-cost health centers. (“Mapping Healthcare Deserts:
80,” n.d.) Many healthcare deserts are often concentrated in rural locations highlighting the
unique geographical challenges that these patients face. Furthermore, certain vascular diseases
including chronic limb threatening ischemia (CLTI) require specialized, multidisciplinary care
for optimal management, but many communities are considered “vascular deserts” in which
there is inadequate access to expert vascular surgery care. (DiLosa et al. 2023) Addressing the

28

challenges posed by healthcare and vascular deserts, particularly in rural areas, is crucial for
ensuring equitable access to essential services. Continued investigation and investment into