.
 Bruits in the abdomen are associated with arterial stenosis. The origin of the bruit could
be renal, mesenteric, or aortoiliac.

40

Lower Extremity Exam:
Inspection
 Pallor, cyanosis, and poor capillary refill are signs of chronic limb ischemia. Muscle
atrophy, hair loss, and thick toenails may also be present.
 Dependent rubor and pallor with elevation indicate advanced peripheral occlusive
disease. Dependent rubor is hyperemic erythematous discoloration of the limb in a
dependent position (sitting or standing). That is, dependent rubor is due to maximally
dilated capillaries and the effects of gravity. However, the limb becomes pale once the
foot is elevated (the patient lies down). Dependent rubor is usually associated with rest
pain and edema. It is frequently misdiagnosed as cellulitis.
 Ulcers need to be identified as neuropathic ulcers or ischemic ulcers. Neuropathic ulcers
are at pressure points over the plantar aspect of the metatarsal head. Ischemic ulcers
are more often towards the tip of the toes.
 Livedo Reticularis: Violaceous mottling of the skin with a reticular pattern of the skin
of the arms and legs. The term “livedo racemosa” is used for cutaneous findings in
infammatory or thrombotic vascular disease patients.
 Acrocyanosis: is defined as bluish discoloration of the extremities due to high deoxygenated blood in the capillaries. It is a persistent disorder without episodic triphasic
color response.
 Microembolic disease can manifest as blue toe syndrome/trash foot.
 Dry skin is present in chronic limb ischemia because the sebaceous glands function poorly
without adequate blood fow.
 Edema is called “pitting” when the indentation persists after applying pressure to a
small area. Pitting edema is associated with systemic diseases like heart failure, chronic
kidney disease, hypoproteinemia, or local disease of the veins or lymphatic. Non-pitting
edema is observed when the indentation does not persist. It is associated with myxedema,
lipedema, and advanced lymphedema.
 Claudication: Patients with claudication may have no significant finding