 perclose device over the guidewire until the wire exit port is
at skin level.
3. Remove the guidewire so only the perclose device is in the vessel and advance the
perclose device until blood fows out of the marker lumen.
4. Lift the lever to open the foot of the device.
5. Insert the plunger down to insert needles, which will connect the threads of the
perclose .
6. Remove the plunger, which pulls the thread taught, and cut the excess thread

Lower the lever to close the foot and retract the device until the guide wire access
port is visible.
Reinsert guidewire and pull both threads taught.
Use the Snared Knot Pusher or Prostyle Suture Trimmer to advance the knot to
the level of skin. 9 Pull the thread taught while removing perclose device.
Advance the knot over the guidewire and remove the guide wire once the bleeding
is controlled.
Pull both threads tightly and remove the knot advancing device.

Wires, Catheters, and Sheaths
Ď Tip
Using the analogy of a train on a track passing through a tunnel, the catheter can be
thought of as the train, the wire as the train track, and the sheath as the surrounding
tunnel.

Wires
Wires are the first device inserted into a patient, have the lowest profile, and are variable in
properties. Vascular access wires are made of a metal core and an outer wire wrapped around
the metal core. They are used to guide devices such as catheters and sheaths into a vessel.
Characteristics of wires include:
Diameter
 Wire diameter is described in thousandths of an inch and typically range from 0.0100.038”.
 Vascular access is typically obtained with a 0.018” wire and is exchanged for a smaller
or larger profile as needed.
 The most common sizes used are 0.035”, 0.018” and 0.014”.

186

Stiness





Wire stiffness is determined by the metal used as the core of the wire.
The same wire will become stiffer with a larger diameter.
Softer wires are used to manipulate catheters into vessels.
Stiffer wires are needed to push larger devices, such as balloons or endografts.

Coating
 Wires have a hydrophilic or hydro