 frequently require a 3
month trial of compression stockings before surgical intervention for C2 disease (Gloviczki et
al. 2024a).

Endovenous & Surgical Interventions

While conservative treatment is often offered as an initial step, it does not address the
underlying pathology. Patients with symptomatic superficial refux who are candidates
for endovenous or surgical intervention should be offered early corrective therapy (Azar,
Rao, and Oropallo 2022a). Surgical treatment of varicose veins or CVI due to superficial
venous incompetence is accomplished by removing, ablating, or ligating the venous segment
with refux. Current options include but are not limited to the following: endovenous
thermal ablation, chemical ablation, high ligation, ligation and stripping, phlebectomy, and
sclerotherapy (Figs. 4, 5). The majority of these procedures are performed in a minimally
invasive fashion under local anesthesia with or without sedation. For more invasive surgical
interventions, general anesthesia may be utilized.

164

Endovenous Intervention

Vessel(s) Treated

Thermal ablation (RFA, EVLA)
Chemical ablation (foam
sclerosants)
Mechanochemical ablation
(MOCA) Adhesive closure
Visual/Surface sclerotherapy
Angioplasty/stenting

Saphenous vein trunks, perforator veins
Saphenous vein trunks/tributaries, perforator veins,
varicose veins not connected to saphenous vein trunks
Saphenous vein trunks
Varicose veins, reticular veins, telangiectasias
Deep veins

Fig. 5: Vessel-specific endovenous treatment modalities
Endovenous Ablation
Endovenous ablation is a minimally invasive procedure recommended for patients with ongoing symptoms of CVD with superficial venous refux (Sidawy and Perler 2023e). Ablation is
performed in an outpatient setting under local anesthesia using a variety of techniques including thermal, chemical, or mechanical methods to occlude the vessel and prevent retrograde
fow. By reducing venous fow volumes, endovenous ablation treats underlying venous hypertension, thereby reducing the risk of harm to