 5.5cm in males and 5cm in
females or if the growth rate exceeds 5 mm in 6 months. Again, this threshold is modified
in patients with a strong family history of aneurysmal disease or collagen vascular disorder,
or when patients present symptomatically or with a ruptured aorta. The topography of the
aneurysm must also be considered as a saccular aneurysm, an isolated pouch off the sidewall
of the aorta, presents a much greater risk of rupture and should be fixed when identified.
On first evaluation, patients with AAAs should be medically optimized to minimize their
perioperative risk of morbidity and mortality. Multiple factors must be considered when
deciding between an open surgical approach and an endovascular one. While the prevalence of
endovascular aortic repair (EVAR) has exponentially increased in the past two decades relative
to open surgical repair (OSR), each aneurysm poses a unique set of potential constraints that
suggest a preference for one type of repair over another.
Please see the Section section and watch the included videos.

Endovascular Aortic Repair (EVAR)
Endovascular aortic repair (EVAR) is a novel approach to AAA treatment that has gained
widespread popularity since its first successful use by Dr. Juan Parodi and Dr. Julio Palmaz
in 1991. EVAR necessitates cross-sectional imaging to measure the AAA dimensions and
determine the appropriate size of an aortic stent graft. Stent grafts are straight or bifurcated
tubes with a wire framework covered by non-porous fabric. Simply, it is a tube that can be
deployed from inside a vessel.
EVAR Procedural Steps
A step-by-step guide of a typical, uncomplicated EVAR for an infrarenal AAA is listed below.
Please see the Section section to a video guide of a typical EVAR.
1. Bilateral femoral access via percutaneous or open surgical exposure (a.k.a. “femoral
cut-downs”)
2. Heparinization to achieve an activated clotting time (ACT) greater than 250 seconds.
3. Placement of stiff wires into the abdominal aorta and upsizing of sheaths into the access
vessels.
4. Aortogram to visualize renal arteries and deployment of the