Ď Tip
Highly tortuous vessels often require a self-expanding stent because of the increased
fexibility needed to prevent kinking or in-stent restenosis.
Heavily calcified vessels often require the increased radial force of balloonexpandable stents to achieve full patency.

Endografts
Endografts are tubes of fabric and interwoven metal used to exclude the diseased segment of
an artery from circulation. The goal of an endograft is to prevent rupture or sac enlargement
of an aneurysm by depressurizing the arterial walls.

194

Figure 5: Balloon-expandable stent deployment courtesty of Blausen Medical. Retrieved on
22 February 20. Wikimedia.

195

Endografts are comparatively larger than stents and can require very large sheaths (>18F for
endovascular aortic repair). To treat an aortic aneurysm with an endograft, there must be
adequate sealing zones of healthy aorta above and below the aneurysm.
Ĺ Note
Please see the AAA Chapter for a full review of endovascular aortic repair (EVAR).
Please see the TAA/TAAA Chapter for a full review of thoracic endovascualr aortic repair
(TEVAR)
For patients that have extension of the aneurysm into the visceral vessels of the aorta, the
use of a conventional, non-fenestrated endograft would block blood fow to the branches of the
diseased segment of the aorta, such as the kidneys or bowel. Treatment of thoracoabdominal
or complex abdominal aortic aneurysms with endovascular repair requires a graft that allows
fow to branches of the aorta. Some common techniques for maintaining visceral blood fow
include :
Fenestrated endografts include small, circular holes in the main body of the endograft.
The french word for window is “fenêtre.” When the fenstrations (or windows) are placed in
line with visceral vessel origins, balloon-expandable stents can be used to bridge to the main
endograft to the native renal or mesenteric arteries.
Additional characteristics about fenestrated grafts:
 They are ideal when the inner aortic diameter is small, making for a short distance (<5
