, Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, etc.).
5. Nearly 80% of abdominal aortic aneurysms are currently repaired via an endovascular approach, with an open surgical approach generally reserved for patients in
which a stent graft would perform poorly.
6. Outcomes following endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair have improved
over time, as experience has accrued with endovascular technique. This pattern of
progressive improvement has not similarly been seen for open surgical repair.
7. Surveillance regimens for patients with unrepaired abdominal aortic aneurysms
suggest imaging via ultrasound or computerized tomography (CT) scan every three
years if the aneurysm is 3.0-3.9cm diameter, every year if the aneurysm is 4.0-4.9cm,
and every six months if the aneurysm is 5.0-5.4cm.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,
noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 75-year-old male with history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes and degenerative disk disease presents to the emergency department with abdominal pain and a blood
pressure of 90/60 mm Hg. The emergency department physician already obtained a CT
scan showing what appears to be a contained rupture of an infrarenal abdominal aortic
aneurysm. What is the next step in management?
A. Resuscitate the patient to ensure a systolic blood pressure of at least 120 mm Hg.
B. Two large bore IVs and admission to