 10. His daughter, who is the patient’s
legal medical decision maker, is at the patient’s bedside and tells you that the patient was
laid off from work 6-months ago and since then has not been able to afford insulin to manage
his diabetes. You call your attending surgeon about the patient’s concerning findings and
recommend an emergency operation. Your attending sighs and says “I’ll never understand
what kind of person lets their disease get this bad.”
Case inspired by University of Michigan Cultural Complications Curriculum


Patient History and Physical Examination of
the Arterial System
Loay S Kabbani, MD, MHSA, FACS and Cassius Iyad Ochoa Chaar, MD, MS, RPVI

Listen to your patient, [they are] telling you the diagnosis. - William Osler.
Specialized testing should always be guided by the initial clinical impressions.
Though the electronic medical record helps eliminate repetitive questions and tests, it tends
to divert attention from the importance of talking to and examining the patient. Interacting
with the patient and family during the history and physical is extremely important to build
rapport with the patients and their family.
For vascular patients passing the “eyeball test” is important before discussing complex procedures. This includes knowing the level of independent living.

Patient History of the Arterial System
For vascular specialists, a focused arterial history should include the arteries of the neck, torso,
and extremities. Many diseases are systemic. For example, atherosclerotic disease affects the
carotid arteries, heart, upper extremities, abdominal blood vessels, and lower extremities.
Patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm may have synchronous peripheral aneurysms.

34

Head and Neck History:
 The history should focus on the carotid artery disease—see ?@sec-carotidarterystenosis
for more detail—specifically, any history of stroke, transient ischemic attacks (TIA), or
amaurosis fugax.
 Amaurosis fugax is described as a curtain or shade causing transient monocular blindness.
This is usually caused by emboli from carotid disease on the ipsilateral side but may be
caused by other embolic sources, migraine, or giant cell arteritis.
 Syncopal episodes are usually not vascular in nature. However, in patients with subclavian stenosis, syn