ervatively provided that the sac does not continue to expand.
E. No endoleak.
Answer
D. Type II endoleak; fow from a lumbar artery would cause a late blush
and can be followed conservatively provided that the sac does not continue
to expand.
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly

Operative Footage Questions
To come shortly. Stay tuned!

Introduction
The aorta is invariably the largest arterial conduit in the body, serving as the channel through
which blood from the heart travels to every other body part. The wall of the aorta is comprised
of three layers, which include the intima, media and adventitia. Its typical course begins at
the distal side of the aortic valve and terminates at the aortic bifurcation, where it splits into

68

the two common iliac arteries. The thoracic aortic segment provides blood fow to the great
vessels of the aortic arch, ensuring perfusion to the head and bilateral upper extremities via the
innominate artery, the left carotid artery, and the left subclavian artery (in that order). The
abdominal segment is a retroperitoneal structure that enters the abdominal cavity through
the aortic hiatus of the diaphragm, at the level of T12. The branches of the abdominal aorta
include, in descending order, the two inferior phrenic arteries, the celiac axis or trunk, the
superior mesenteric artery (SMA), the renal arteries, the inferior mesenteric artery (IMA),
and ultimately, the bilateral common iliac arteries. The branches of both the thoracic and
abdominal aorta provide blood fow to areas of critically vital viscera.

Figure 1: Anatomically normal aorta with main and visceral branches.
While the aorta serves a critical role for the rest of the body, it can be the site of significant
pathology. Aneurysms, which are common pathology in both the thoracic and abdominal aorta,
are defined by an increase in arterial diameter to 1.5 times the normal diameter of the vessel. As

69

the diameter of the aortic aneurysm increases, the risk of rupture increases in direct proportion.
For example, a patient with a 4cm abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) has an