50%. The right
common and external iliac artery are patent without evidence of significant atherosclerosis.
The patient is evaluated in the preoperative area prior to placement of a thoracic endograft in
the hybrid operating room.

205

Figure 7: CTA

Exam
HEENT: Pupils round and reactive to light, no lymphadenopathy
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm
Pulmonary: Clear to auscultation in all lung fields. No accessory muscle use.
Abdominal: Soft, non-tender, non-distended, no pulsatile masses felt.
Vascular/Extremities: Warm, non-edematous. Palpable pulses in all four extremities.



Ultrasound-Guided Femoral Access
ProGlide Vascular Closure Device Deployment
Inferior Vena Cava (IVC) Filter Placement
Standard IVC Filter Retrieval

209

Radiation and Radiation Safety
Lucas Canaan, Do, Mark Basilious, BS, Ezra Schwartz, MD, MS, MMS, Daniel Torrent MD,
MPH, FACS.

Note
By the end of this chapter, students will be able to:

Recognize the fundamental types of ionizing radiation.
Understand the sources of radiation in the vascular operating room.
Recognize and practice radiation safety measures.
Recognize adverse outcome of significant radiation exposure.

Key Facts
1. The primary forms of ionizing radiation are alpha particles, beta particles, gamma
rays, and x-rays.
2. In the operating environment, x-rays scatter leading to potential unexpected
exposure.
3. Lead aprons and glasses are important in protecting radiosensitive organs in the
body.
4. Proper shielding, minimizing duration of radiation use, and increasing distance from
the source are important measures to reducing the amount of radiation exposure.
5. The side effects of prolonged radiation exposure to healthcare providers include
various health issues such as cataracts and reproductive dysfunction.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,

210

noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers