
treatments, employing techniques such as mechanochemical ablation (MOCA), cyanoacrylate
adhesive, and sclerosant foams. MOCA combines mechanical damage with the direct injection
of a sclerosant to close the vein, enhancing the effectiveness of the chemical agent (Boersma
et al. 2014a). Cyanoacrylate adhesive, injected directly into the vein, promotes vessel closure
through infammation and subsequent fibrotic occlusion. For larger vessels, chemical ablation
via ultrasound-guided delivery of foam sclerosants like polidocanol and sodium tetradecyl
sulfate (STS) is preferred (Bootun et al. 2017a).

165

High Ligation & Stripping
Though minimally invasive endovenous methods are associated with reduced convalescence,
recurrence, and morbidity compared to open surgery, great saphenous vein (GSV) ligation
with or without stripping may be chosen for patients with refux and varicose veins in the GSV
distribution where ablation is not an option (Gloviczki et al. 2024a). High ligation of the GSV
is accomplished via an oblique incision below the groin crease, centered over the SFJ which can
be located and marked using duplex ultrasound. The GSV and its six main tributaries near
its termination are circumferentially dissected and ligated. It is crucial to perform ligation of
the GSV close to the femoral vein without impinging on and thus narrowing the femoral vein.
Care must also be taken to not leave a long stump proximally because this increases the risk
of venous thromboembolism.
Recurrence rates are reduced when GSV stripping is performed in addition to high ligation
(HL&S) versus high ligation alone (Sidawy and Perler 2023e). After the GSV is ligated at
the SFJ, a vein stripper is passed distally and a second incision is made near the knee. The
GSV is then tied to the stripper and both the stripper and the vein are drawn out through
the distal incision, stripping in a downward direction, avulsing its tributaries and removing
it from circulation. Top-down passage of the stripper minim