 Individuals who are heavy smokers tend to develop superficial femoral artery disease, whereas
those with diabetes and renal failure tend to develop infrapopliteal disease. The tibial
artery is the only infrapopliteal vessel listed as an answer option. All other options are
suprapopliteal.
6. A 75-year-old male with a history of migraines, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension,
triple coronary bypass (CABG x3), recurrent cellulitis, glaucoma and benign prostatic
hyperplasia (BPH) presents to your clinic due to pain. He has smoked approximately
2 packs per day for over 30 years. Despite smoking cessation counseling, he continues
to smoke 1-2 cigarettes a day. He reports pain with walking for the past several years.
After walking one city block, his calves begin to hurt. He intermittently develops toe
sores and wounds that can take 1-2 months to heal. If the wound is larger, it can take
3-4 months to heal. What risk factors does this patient have that contribute to the most
likely disease process?
A. Migraines
B. BPH
C. Glaucoma

113

D. Smoking
E. Cellulitis
Answer
D. Smoking.
Discussion: Smoking contributes to worsening peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Peripheral arterial disease results when the arteries narrow due to plaque accumulation which
prevents or decreases the amount of oxygen-rich blood reaching your legs. The chemicals in tobacco products increase the rate of plaque formation in arterial walls thereby
narrowing the arterial lumen. Smoking also constricts blood vessels and causes blood to
clot, ultimately putting PAD patients at a higher risk of further complications such as
heart attacks, limb amputations, and death. Cellulitis and other wound complications
can be an effect of peripheral arterial disease, but is not the cause of peripheral disease.
The other options of migraines, BPH, glaucoma have no known associations with PAD.
7. A 74-year-old female with a past medical history of IDDM with ESRD on dialysis, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, and previous MI is referred to you for evaluation of
crampy calf pain for the last 2 months with onset upon physical exertion. It has since
progressed to pain at