peritoneal dissections, incisional pain can be significant and cause atelectasis
or other respiratory compromise. Additionally, ileus and wound infections can impair the
return of proper bowel function. Similar to EVAR, ischemic colitis can manifest after OSR,
particularly in the setting of rupture.

79

Outcomes
Much experience has been gained since the first EVAR in 1990 and ample research has been
dedicated to the comparison of EVAR to OSR. Multiple trials have demonstrated an early
survival advantage for EVAR over OSR that tends to diminish over time. Certainly, the
perioperative period for EVAR is notable for reduced morbidity and mortality relative to OSR
with length of hospital stay significantly longer in those undergoing OSR. However, this early
benefit is often balanced by a necessity for life-long follow-up including imaging at regular
intervals and a tendency for re-interventions during the surveillance period (e.g. to manage
endoleaks). Hence, the risk-benefit ratio must be weighed individually for each patient.
Contemporary management of abdominal aortic aneurysms is most often undertaken with
EVAR. Endovascular repair has a third of the peri-operative all-cause mortality attributed to
open repair (1.6% vs 4.8%, respectively). This survival benefit tends to dissipate by three to
four years post-operatively. Moreover, the overall complication rate of EVAR in the perioperative period is up to 10%.
Among patients who undergo open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, mortality in the immediate post-operative period can be as high as 5%. Of patients who survive, later death is
typically related to cardiovascular disease burden. Complications arise in 9% of patients and
most often include myocardial infarction, respiratory insuﬀciency, pneumonia, acute kidney
injury, and ischemic colitis. Late Infection of the graft is possible, is challenging to manage,
and occurs in less than 1% of patients.

Surveillance
The Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines suggest that for patients found to have an abdominal aortic aneurysm, surveillance imaging should occur at intervals specific to the maximum
diameter of their aneurysm.
 For patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms between 3.0 and 3.9cm in diameter,