 severe cases
where limb salvage is not possible or limb-threatening infection persists even after attempts
at revascularization, amputation may be necessary to preserve overall health and quality of
life.
In addition to conservative management and surgical intervention, appropriate wound care
is an important aspect of CLTI treatment. Surgical wound debridement, infection control,
ooading techniques, and daily specialized wound care are integral in promoting healing and
preventing amputation.
It is important to note that CLTI is a chronic disease, and patients may require multiple
interventions, be on lifelong aspirin/statin therapy, and require close follow-up with routine
imaging surveillance for the entirety of their lifetime. Moreover, vascular surgeons work with
a team of physicians from other specialties – including primary care, cardiology, podiatry,
nephrology, and endocrinology – in order to ensure that patients with CLTI are appropriately
optimized given their respective comorbidities to improve overall outcomes. This integrative
physician network to help manage CLTI patients is important as patency rates of stents and
bypasses can be severely limited by a patient’s underlying disease burdens from uncontrolled
hypertension, diabetes, renal insuﬀciency, and tobacco abuse.
Below is a sample algorithm for treatment management of a patient with PAD that progresses
to CLTI. Candidacy for revascularization indicates that the patient is able to tolerate anesthesia and has suitable anatomy - including possible targets for bypasses or the ability to traverse
lesions endovascularly.

124

Here is an image demonstrating angioplasty, atherectomy, and placement of stents.
Here is an image demonstrating surgical or extra-anatomic bypass.

Outcomes
 Patients with CLTI have variable outcomes with regard to limb loss and overall mortality.
 Approximately 90% of all CLTI patients undergo a revascularization procedure (bypass
or endovascular intervention) in their lifetime. (Conte et al. 2019d)
 For CLTI patients who do not undergo any revascularization, the natural history includes
a 1-year major amputation and 1-year mortality rate of 22%. (Conte et al. 2019d)
 When looking at overall 1-year outcomes for all CLTI patients, 1-year amputation rates
are at 15-20%