 < 50 mmHg.
4. Transcutaneous pressure of oxygen (TcPO2) < 30 mmHg.
5. Flat or minimal pulsatile volume recording (PVR) waveforms.

Angiography
CT Angiography (CTA) with tri-vessel runoff (i.e. anterior tibial, posterior tibial, peroneal
arteries) of lower extremities can help identify the location(s) of disease. However, this investigation requires a contrast load and should be carefully considered for those patients with
renal disease.
Lastly, diagnostic angiography is an invasive imaging technique that provides detailed information about the arterial anatomy and helps identify specific sites of blockage or stenosis.
Diagnostic angiography involves the patient undergoing a femoral artery puncture to access
the arterial system. Next, a series of catheters and wires are used to deliver contrast. Fluoroscopic imaging of the lower limb reveals vessel anatomy and identifies areas of stenotic disease.
As arterial access is already achieved, immediate intervention may be considered including
angioplasty (i.e. ballooning of stenosis) or stenting.

118

Classication Systems
Ď Tip
Below, we will introduce and summarize the most common classification systems. For a
high-yield summary of all classification systems, please see this paper. (Hardman et al.
2014)
The Rutherford Classication and Fontaine Grading
 The Rutherford Classification is the mainstay of diagnosing the severity of CLTI, however,
Fontaine grading can also be used.
 These grading systems are based on symptom presentation. Patients with CLTI usually
present with Fontaine Grade 2 or higher or Rutherford Category 3 or higher.
 Minor tissue loss is considered defined as non-healing ulcers with focal gangrene that do
not exceed the foot digit.
 Major tissue loss extends beyond the transmetatarsal level with the functional foot no
longer salvageable. Patients with major tissue loss most often receive amputations.
Fontaine Grade

The Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) classication
 The Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) classification was proposed in 2014 as an
integrated lower extremity wound classification and prognositcation system. The W