 and is worse
on the right as compared to the left. He notices that when he stops walking, the pain resolves.
This pain is keeping him from being able to participate in social events and spend quality time
with his family.
4. What is the name of the symptom the patient is experiencing?
A. Neuropathy
B. Claudication
C. Ischemic rest pain

91

D. Bilateral sciatica
E. Normal symptoms
Answer
B. Claudication
Discussion: Claudication is defined as reproducible pain or cramping of the lower extremities that occurs with ambulation and significantly improves or resolves at rest. Claudication can occur in any muscle group distal to the area of arterial stenosis and/or occlusion.
As such, the calf muscles are the most common anatomic location to experience pain as
they are distal in the lower extremity. As the patient does not report pain at rest, they do
not have ischemic rest pain. Neuropathic pain or bilateral sciatica and claudication can
be confused. Neuropathic pain is shocking in quality whereas claudication is describes as
a cramp-type pain. Furthermore, claudication is absent at rest, triggered by exercise, and
relieved by a return to rest. This pattern helps distinguish claudication from neuropathic
pain. This patient also does not have normal pathology, as one should not have pain on
ambulation and needs to be further evaluated.
5. What would be the first step in confirming the diagnosis for this patient?
A. CT Angiography (CTA)
B. Doppler probe
C. Duplex Ultrasound
D. Angiogram
E. Ankle-Brachial Index and Pulse Volume Recording (ABI/PVR)
Answer
E. ABI/PVR
Discussion: Ankle Brachial Index (ABI) is a non-invasive method that measures the ratio
of blood pressure in the lower legs to the blood pressure in the arms. Abnormal ABIs have
been shown to have high specificity with identifying PAD. Patients who have claudication
usually have ABI ranges from 0.5 to 0.9. Pulse volume recordings (PVR) use pressure
cuffs to record the shape of a pulse. The type of waveform provides important information about the characteristics of blood fow. Waveforms can be used to diagnose and
