 populations.

Veteran Populations:
Military veterans represent a unique population with distinct healthcare needs. While veterans
may benefit from the ability to receive care through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
healthcare system, there remain notable challenges and disparities for this population. Barriers
to medical treatment in the veteran population broadly include long wait times at VA facilities,
mental health illness and stress related to previous deployments, challenges reintegrating into
civilian life, and unmet basic needs such as housing and employment. (Misra-Hebert et al.
2015) Because of these barriers, veteran populations often suffer higher incidence of medical
comorbidities compared to civilian population. Assari (2014) Looking at vascular pathologies,
a large 2017 epidemiological study demonstrated that there is a higher incidence of PAD and
associated mortality among veterans, with an estimated 30% of veterans dying within 3.8 years
of a PAD diagnosis. (Willey et al. 2018) Additional studies have shown that demonstrated
that mental illness may compound vascular comorbidities within the veteran population, as
veterans suffering from comorbid depression face significantly higher risk of amputation and
death from PAD. (Arya et al. 2018) Ultimately, understanding the complex social determinants
and healthcare needs of veterans is essential for developing targeted interventions and support
systems to improve the health and well-being of this vulnerable population.

29

Teaching Case
Scenario
A 65 year old man is brought to the emergency room with altered mental status, fevers, and
severe pain, swelling, and erythema in his right foot. On exam, the foot is warm to the
touch and you observe a deep, ulcerating wound with surrounding necrotic tissue. His labs
are notable for an elevated white count and HbA1c of 10. His daughter, who is the patient’s
legal medical decision maker, is at the patient’s bedside and tells you that the patient was
laid off from work 6-months ago and since then has not been able to afford insulin to manage
his diabetes. You call your attending surgeon about the patient’s concerning findings and
recommend an emergency operation. Your attending sighs and says “I’ll never understand
what kind of person lets their disease get this bad.”
Case