 any history of stroke, transient ischemic attacks (TIA), or
amaurosis fugax.
 Amaurosis fugax is described as a curtain or shade causing transient monocular blindness.
This is usually caused by emboli from carotid disease on the ipsilateral side but may be
caused by other embolic sources, migraine, or giant cell arteritis.
 Syncopal episodes are usually not vascular in nature. However, in patients with subclavian stenosis, syncope may be a manifestation of subclavian steal syndrome.
 History of radiation to neck, prior carotid interventions or prior surgery to the neck
should be elucidated and prior studies should be obtained.

Upper Extremity History:
 Evaluation of the upper extremities should focus on the timing (acute vs. chronic) and
degree of ischemia (claudication vs. chronic limb-threatening ischemia).
 Acute limb ischemia (ALI) is a sudden occlusion of the blood supply with no time for
collateral vessels to develop. It is characterized by the 6 Ps. Pulselessness, pain, pallor,
paresthesia, poikilothermia (cold), and paralysis. The most common etiology of acute
limb ischemia is embolic. However, uncommon causes of ALI in the upper extremity
may include thrombosis of a subclavian–axillary aneurysm.
 Intermittent hand coldness associated with pain and numbness may refect Raynaud’s
syndrome (associated with cold exposure) or vasospam of small vessels due to conditions
like frostbite or scleroderma.
 Raynaud’s phenomenon presents as episodes of vasospasm in response to cold or stress.
During an attack, the patient describes the affected areas turning white, blue, and red
associated with feeling cold and numb. As the circulation improves and the affected
areas turn red, the patient may experience throbbing, tingling, and swelling.
 Episodes of ischemia to the digits may be persistent, severe and associated with underlying obliterative microangiopathy and manifest with pain and tissue loss (ulceration or
gangrene).
 Chronic ischemia of the upper extremity is uncommon and can manifest with arm claudication (exertional fatigue). The etiology is most commonly proximal obstruction due to
atherosclerotic disease in the subclavian artery. Uncommon causes