 demonstrates osteomyelitis of the
calcaneus, and a metal probe inserted into the ulcer can “probe to bone.” She has a
palpable ipsilateral dorsalis pedis pulse. Which operation would be most appropriate?
A. Transmetatarsal amputation.
B. Below-knee amputation.
C. Local calcaneus excision with full-thickness skin fap.
D. Above-knee amputation.
Answer
B. Below-knee amputation
Discussion: Osteomyelitis of the calcaneus is a diﬀcult condition to treat. The calcaneus is crucial for weight bearing and skin faps are unlikely to heal in this location. The
below-knee amputation will remove the infection and still provide the longest amputation

112

stump to decrease the work associated with ambulation. As such, an above-knee amputation is too aggressive. A transmetatarsal amputation will not remove the infected bone.
Lower extremity amputation: techniques and results. In: Cronenwett JL, Johnson KW,
eds. Rutherford’s Vascular Surgery. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2014. UpToDate
(Publisher Subscription Required): Lower extremity amputation.
5. A 70-year-old male with poorly controlled diabetes and no smoking history presents to
the clinic for an ischemic toe ulcer. What level of infrainguinal arterial occlusive disease
is he most at risk for developing based on this history?
A. Superficial femoral artery disease
B. Deep femoral artery disease
C. Iliac artery disease
D. Aortic disease
E. Tibial artery disease
Answer
E. Tibial artery disease
Discussion: Risk factors for peripheral arterial disease include age, male gender, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, dyslipidemia, family history, and homocysteinemia. Individuals who are heavy smokers tend to develop superficial femoral artery disease, whereas
those with diabetes and renal failure tend to develop infrapopliteal disease. The tibial
artery is the only infrapopliteal vessel listed as an answer option. All other options are
suprapopliteal.
6. A 75-year-old male with a history of migraines, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension,
triple coronary bypass (CABG x3