” in healthy people:
 Total cholesterol: Levels below 200 mg/dL (5.2 mmol/L)
 LDL cholesterol: Levels below 130 mg/dL (3.4 mmol/L)
 HDL cholesterol: Levels above 40 mg/dL (1 mmol/L) in men and above 50 mg/dL
(1.3 mmol/L) in women
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) standards of care for diabetes recommend
that statin therapy should be initiated in individuals with diabetes and other atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk factors.
Please see the ASCVD risk calculator algorithm:
 For patients ages 40 years and older with diabetes: Use moderate-dose statin therapy.
 For patients ages 40 to 75 with diabetes and a higher cardiovascular risk (including
those with one or more ASCVD risk factors): Use high-intensity statin therapy to
reduce LDL cholesterol by  50% of baseline and target an LDL cholesterol goal of
<70 mg/dL.
 For patients with diabetes who have already had an ASCVD event: High-intensity
statin therapy is recommended to target an LDL cholesterol reduction of  50% from
baseline and an LDL cholesterol goal of <55 mg/dL.

PAD Risk Factors
All these risk factors increase rates of atherosclerosis and start to limit the blood fow to the
lower extremities, attributing to claudication.
 Smoking: Smoking is a well-established major risk factor for PAD. It contributes to
PAD through multiple mechanisms, including endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress,
infammation, and platelet activation. The nicotine in tobacco constricts blood vessels

97

and promotes the formation of atherosclerotic plaques. Moreover, smoking cessation is
the most effective intervention in reducing the progression of PAD.
 Diabetes Mellitus: Diabetes is closely associated with PAD due to hyperglycemiainduced endothelial dysfunction and microvascular damage. It accelerates atherosclerosis by promoting lipid abnormalities, systemic infammation, and the development of
neuropathy, which can mask or delay the recognition of PAD symptoms.
 Hypertension: Hypertension is a major contributor to PAD. Elevated blood pressure
damages arterial walls, rendering them more susceptible to atherosclerosis. Hypertension
also increases the risk of throm