eters.
Answer
A. Using anatomic landmarks to confirm cannulation through the inguinal
ligament
Discussion: On first access for an angiogram with right groin access, the right common
femoral artery should be accessed. The CFA begins below the level of the inguinal
ligament, making answer A incorrect. One should avoid going through the inguinal
ligament as native fascial planes are disrupted and it can make for challenging upsizing
of devices and closure. Following identification of the inguinal ligament; ultrasound,
fuoroscopy, and the Seldinger technique should be used as above to safely cannulate the
CFA.

Introduction
Endovascular surgery is a minimally invasive approach to treat a variety of vascular pathologies
including peripheral artery disease, aortic aneurysms, venous diseases, and more. Endovascular
surgery is not limited to vascular surgery as a specialty and is also employed by interventional
cardiologists, neurosurgeons, interventional radiologists, and others.
Over the past 30 years, endovascular surgery has dramatically changed the practice of vascular
surgeons, decreasing patient morbidity and mortality in the immediate postoperative period
and the length of hospital stay.
Understanding endovascular surgery as a medical student or junior resident can be a diﬀcult
task due to the abundance of wires, catheters, sheaths, and devices used and orienting onself
using fuorscopic images. In this chapter, we will focus on developing a conceptual basis for
endovascular surgery.

182

Relevant Anatomy and Vascular Access
The common femoral artery (CFA) is the most common site of access for endovascular surgery
due to its larger size and lower risk of complications relative to other sites of vascular access.
Other sites of arterial access include the radial, brachial, and axillary artery in the upper
extremity, as well as the popliteal and dorsal pedal arteries in the leg. The further away the
vessel is from the aorta, the smaller the vessel lumen, and hence the smaller the diameter of
devices that can be utilized in that artery.
The CFA is referred to as the external iliac artery proximal to the inguinal ligament and the
superficial femoral artery (SFA) distal to the