ifies shear stress. This shear stress increases likelihood of plaque
rupture, platelet aggregation and thromboembolization. There are multiple seminal studies
that describe cohort comparisons of asymptomatic and symptomatic carotid artery stenosis
with outcomes related to optimal medical management alone or as adjunct to surgical repair.
Symptomatic carotid stenosis is described as carotid stenosis >50% with unilateral stroke, TIA
or amaurosis fugax on the side of carotid disease. Amaurosis fugax is historically described
as shade coming down across one eye on the side of stenosis to produce partial or complete,
painless monocular visual loss related to transient retinal ischemia. Amaurosis fugax may be
bilateral in the case of bilateral, symptomatic carotid artery stenosis.

Etiology
Atherosclerosis is the most common cause for the development of carotid artery disease. This
process is defined by deposition of lipid-laden plaque at the carotid bifurcation, and potentially
across a larger territory of the common carotid, external carotid, and internal carotid arteries.
This plaque may contain varying degrees of calcification and/or thrombus. The mechanisms

53

by which atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation may lead to stroke or TIA are: occlusion
(cessation of blood fow to the internal carotid artery) or embolization (plaque debris break
off and travel through the internal carotid artery to the brain). There are various risk factors
which may contribute to the degree of atherosclerosis and its progression. These include
history of cigarette smoking, hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypertension,
advanced age, and family history of carotid disease or stroke.

Diagnostics and Imaging
Three primary imaging modalities are used to evaluate carotid artery stenosis with the lowest
cost option being color fow duplex ultrasound (DSA) that allows a physician to determine
peak systolic and end diastolic velocities throughout the carotid bifurcation. Based on the
internally validated vascular laboratory criteria of the institution, these velocities can be correlated to ranges of degree of stenosis, with high grade stenosis defined as >70-80%. Since
the modality is based