 long sheaths for diagnostics and
treatment. Long sheaths are fexible enough to track along different vessels, but are also stiff
enough to support the advancement or exchange of devices.
Ĺ Note
Sheaths are measured in French (1F = 0.33 mm) and the diameter corresponds to the
inner diameter of the tube.
As such, a 6F catheter will pass through a 6F sheath.
Key points about sheaths:
 Sheaths are measured based on the inner diameter of the sheath, in contrast to catheters,
which are measured based on their outer diameter.
 Sheaths contain a removable introducer, which is used to expand the tract from the
outside into the vessel, and provide a smooth transition between the wire and the sheath.

191

 The side port on sheaths is used to fush the inner device with heparinized saline to
prevent thrombus formation and distal embolization. It can also be used to inject contrast
for diagnostic purposes.
 Sheaths come in variable diameters, lengths, and tips.
 Some sheaths, such as the TourGuide (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN) are steerable.
The operator can defect the sheath tip up to 180 degrees. This is advantageous when
cannulating branch arteries with sharp angles.
It is also helpful to understand what diameter of sheath can be inserted into different points
of access as this will change the approach for the procedure. Though there is variation across
patients, the table below is a useful starting point to understand what size sheath can be
inserted in target access arteries.

Artery                  Inner Diameter (mm)         Typical Access Sheath size (F)
Radial                  2.3                         4-6
Brachial                                            5-7
Axillary                                            5-14
Common Femoral          6.6                         5-24
Popliteal               4.7                         4-6
Pedal                   2.1                         4

Balloons, Stents, and Endografts
The delivery system for balloons consists of a catheter over the wire with the balloon built
into the catheter tip. As such, advancing the balloon into place for angioplasty is no different
from advancing a small catheter without a balloon.
Similar to balloons, stents are contained