 at this time, continue to monitor and come back to clinic in 3 months.
Answer
D. Ensure medication optimization for his hypertension and hyperlipidemia,
smoking cessation counseling, and exercise regimen.
Discussion: The mainstay of treatment for claudication is conservative management, including medical optimization and lifestyle modification. The patient has hypertension
and hyperlipidemia. He should be on appropriate antihypertensive to control the blood
pressure. With regard to medical optimization, it is recommended that patients start
on antiplatelet therapy (Aspirin 81 mg daily) and a high dose statin. Lifestyle modifications include smoking cessation, exercise training to develop collateral vessels, and diet
modification to lower cholesterol intake. An appropriate exercise regimen is defined by
at least 30 minutes of supervised ambulation/exercise at least 3 times per week. Patients
should be followed closely with yearly ABIs by both Primary Care Physicians (PCPs)
and Vascular Surgeons for progression of disease. While an angiogram allows for simultaneous diagnosis and treatment of PAD, it is an invasive technique that requires the use
of contrast. Angiogram may be considered if conservative management fails. Cilostazol
is an antiplatelet that has been shown to have beneficial effects for patients wtih intermittent claudication, however, it is not a first-line medication. Lastly, while follow-up is
important in the management of PAD, conservative management should be initiated as
soon as the diagnosis of PAD is made.

93

Introduction
Ď Tip
The term peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is often used interchangeably with peripheral
vascular disease (PVD) when referring to arterial blockages.
Claudication is defined as cramping, pain, and/or discomfort in the hip, thigh, or
calves that occurs with ambulation/exercise, improves shortly after cessation of
activity, and recurs after a predictable amount of ambulation/exercise.
Claudication is a symptom of peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Therefore, it is important to
first understand PAD before addressing claudication. PAD is a chronic condition of arterial
insuﬀciency due to the build-up of atherosclerotic plaque (or fatty deposits) in the arteries.
PAD affects 8.5 million adults in the U.S. and 202 million adults worldwide, with approximately 15% of the population aged greater than 7