and others by deploying baloons, stents, and or endografts.
2. The common femoral artery (CFA) is the most common site of access for endovascular surgery due to its larger size and lower risk of complications relative to other
sites of vascular access
3. Using the analogy of a train on a track passing through a tunnel, a catheter can be
thought of as the train, a wire as the train track, and a sheath as the surrounding
tunnel.
4. Wires are used to guide devices such as catheters and sheaths into a vessel.
5. Catheters are fexible, hollow tubes that are used in both the diagnosis and treatment of vascular disease. In an analogy of a train track, the catheter can be thought
of as the train, the track is the wire, and the surrounding tunnel is the sheath.
6. Catheters are measured in French (1F = 0.33 mm) and the diameter corresponds
to the outer diameter of the tube.
7. Sheaths are hollow tubes that provide conduit between outside the body and into
the vessel, the “tunnel” in the train track analogy. Sheaths are used to advance

178

and exchange catheters, wires, stents, balloons, and other devices.
8. Sheaths are measured in French (1F = 0.33 mm) and the diameter corresponds to
the inner diameter of the tube.
9. A 6F catheter will pass through a 6F sheath.
10. Endovascular surgery is not without risks and complications. Complications include
the formation of hematoma, pseudoaneurysm, retroperitoneal hematoma, fistula,
dissection, thrombosis and embolism, and atheroembolism. Other complications
include wire perforation vessel rupture.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,
noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not