 rapidly.
 Occurs when a large stiff hydrophilic wire is passed through a small vessel especially if
not done under fuoroscopic guidance.
 Treatment involves transcatheter embolization of the perforation site.

204

Vessel Rupture
Vessel rupture occurs when a device or balloon is oversized for a vessel and causes a “blowout”
of a vessel.
Key points:
 Rupture can be cause by an oversized balloon or balloon expandable stent, by expanding
a properly sized balloon in a heavily calcified vessel or by passage of a large device such
as an EVAR device through a small vessel.
 Rupture is associated with a high morbidity and mortality especially if there is any delay
in diagnosis.
 Immediately upon recognition of vessel rupture, a balloon should be infated in the
region to obtain adequate hemostasis. Simultaneously, supplies should be can gathered
for vessel repair.
 Repair is usually done with a covered stent placed across the rupture. If adequate
hemostasis cannot be obtained, open repair may be necessary.

Teaching Case
Scenario
A 71 year old male with a past medical history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, coronary
artery disease with stent placement was diagnosed with acute type B aortic dissection three
weeks ago. He was managed medically in the hospital and sent home after one week with
blood pressure and pain well-controlled. An image from the CTA at time of diagnosis is seen
below:
The proximal extent of the dissection was 3 cm distal to the left subclavian artery and the distal
extent was 2 cm superior to the celiac artery, allowing good landing zones for an endograft.
The left internal iliac artery is fully occluded, and the right internal iliac artery has roughly
50% stenosis. The left external iliac artery is heavily calcified and stenotic >50%. The right
common and external iliac artery are patent without evidence of significant atherosclerosis.
The patient is evaluated in the preoperative area prior to placement of a thoracic endograft in
the hybrid operating room.

205

Figure 7: CTA

Exam
HEENT: Pupils round and reactive to light, no lymphadenopathy
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm
Pulmonary: Clear to auscultation in all lung fields