 ultrasound shows a 5.6cm infrarenal fusiform
aortic aneurysm extending into the proximal common iliac arteries. His primary care physician refers him to the vascular surgery clinic, where he presents without subjective complaints.
CTA is recommended to assess the patient’s anatomy.

Exam
HEENT: No carotid bruits.
Cardiac: Irregularly irregular, no murmurs.
Pulmonary: Clear to auscultation in all lung fields.
Abdominal: Obese, soft, non-tender, no pulsatile masses felt.
Vascular: Palpable femoral pulses, multiphasic pedal signals bilaterally.

Imaging
CTA Abdo/Pelvis

81

CTA Report: 5.6cm infrarenal bilobed aortic aneurysm with bilateral accessory renal arteries
inferior to main renal arteries. 14mm infrarenal neck cranial to aneurysm. Widely patent iliac
systems with non-diseased femoral arteries.

Lower Extremity Arterial Disease

87

Claudication
Nakia Sarad, DO, MS, Ezra Schwartz, MD,CM, MS, Marvin Chau, MD, MS, Shannon McDonnell, BS, Bernadette Aulivola, MD, FACS, Kelly Kempe, MD, RPVI, FACS, Kaled Diab,
MD, and Lindsey Korepta, MD, FACS.

Note
By the end of this chapter, students will:
 Explain the definition, etiology, and pathophysiology of peripheral arterial disease
and its relation to claudication.
 Identify the risk factors associated with claudication.
 Recognize the clinical manifestations and symptoms of claudication.
 Summarize the underlying vascular anatomy and physiology relevant to claudication.
 Outline the diagnostic approach and tests used to evaluate claudication.
 Summarize evidence-based outcomes of the management of claudication.
Key Facts
1. Peripheral arterial disease (PAD), also known as peripheral vascular disease (PVD),
is a condition characterized by atherosclerosis or narrowing of the arteries that
supply blood to the extremities.
2. PAD affects approximately 202 million individuals worldwide.
3. Major risk factors for PAD include smoking, diabetes, and advanced age.
4. Claudication is the mildest symptomatic manifestation of peripheral arterial disease.
5. Claud