 APDVS Claudication
Chapter or here.

Ultrasound Guided Access
There is emerging evidence to suggest real time identification of anatomic structures with US
guidance may decrease the risk of access-related complications. A summary to the steps of
US-guided access of the CFA are included below.
Identifying the correct vessel:
1. Obtain baseline peripheral pulses.
2. Obtain a micropuncture kit, containing a hollow needle, guidewire, and catheter
3. Using the US probe, identify any plaque or calcification along the CFA or iliac artery
that may change the site of access.
4. Identify the CFA, which can be differentiated from the femoral vein by its thick wall,
resistance to compression, pulsatility, and relative lateral anatomic positioning. A video
identifying the CFA through the “Mickey Mouse Sign” on US is available here.
Obtaining access through the Seldinger technique:
The Seldinger technique help obtain safe access to blood vessels. In contrast to previous
methods, the Seldinger technique causes minimal damage to the blood vessel thereby allowing
the puncture to be closed percutaneously, and avoids the risk of loss of access during the
procedure through keeping at least one wire, catheter, or sheath at the site of interest in the
body all times.
Steps to the Seldinger technique are as follows:
1. Cannulate the CFA by inserting the hollow needle at a 45-90 degree angle to the skin
under US guidance, blood will fow out of the needle once inserted into the vessel.
2. Insert the guidewire into the vessel. Remove the hollow needle while keeping the
guidewire in place, being careful not to allow the wire to withdraw as the needle is
removed.
3. Insert the catheter over the guidewire.
4. Exchange the guidewire that came in the micropuncture kit with desired guidewire to
begin the procedure.

Closure and Closure Devices
Once the procedure is complete, percutaneous access will need to be closed. If relatively small
catheters and sheaths were used during the procedure, generally below 6 French (1F = .33
millimeter), arterial access may be closed with manual compression by applying pressure with
two fingers over the site of incision against the femoral head. Alternatively, certain indications,
such as use of anticoagulation or