 standardized clinical
classification system for diagnosing CVD is critical to understanding the natural history of the
disease and how to best treat it. The Clinical-Etiology-Anatomy-Pathophysiology (CEAP)
classification system (Fig. 1) is used to determine the complexity of the clinical manifestations
of CVD, providing a reliable and reproducible classification system to describe the patient’s
current status. While CVD encompasses the full spectrum of abnormalities of the venous
system, the designation of CVI is reserved for advanced venous disease-producing edema, skin
changes, or venous ulcers (C3-C6) [Eklof et al. (2009a)](Lurie et al. 2020a).

While the CEAP classification system is the global standard for describing clinical features of
CVD, it is not sensitive to changes in disease over time and thus is a poor prognosticator of
progression and treatment outcomes. In response, the Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS)
(Fig. 2) was formulated as a complementary evaluative instrument based on ten categories
graded on a scale of 0 to 3 for a final total score between 0 and 30 (Vasquez et al. 2010a).s

Fig. 2: Revised Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS)
Treatment
Management of CVD requires an individualized approach which may include conservative,
pharmacological, and/or interventional therapies. Surgical intervention for CVI focuses on
treating refuxing axial veins and correcting the underlying chronic venous hypertension. Management decisions (Fig. 3) are guided according to a thorough evaluation of CEAP classification (e.g., varicose veins or CVI), source of refux (superficial, deep, and/or perforator), vessel
anatomy, and baseline candidacy for surgical intervention (Azar, Rao, and Oropallo 2022a).
CEAP classification

Recommended therapy

Asymptomatic C1
Symptomatic C1
Symptomatic C2-C6 with
refux

Conservative
Conservative and/or sclerotherapy
Superficial venous ablation, phlebectomy, or vein stripping
and/or ligation

Fig. 3: Therapy recommendations based on CEAP classification score

Conservative Management
Initial therapy for