 buttock claudication, absent femoral pulses, and impotence.
 Vascular etiologies of acute abdominal pain include ruptured AAA aneurysm, which
presents as severe pain radiating to the back or acute mesenteric ischemia, which presents
as pain out of proportion to physical exam

Lower Extremities History:
 An evaluation of the lower extremities for peripheral artery disease should focus on
the timing (acute vs. chronic) and degree of ischemia (claudication vs. chronic limbthreatening ischemia).
 Acute limb ischemia (ALI) is the sudden occlusion of the blood supply to a peripheral
limb. It is typically characterized by the 6 Ps. Pulselessness, pain, pallor, paresthesia,
poikilothermia (cold), and paralysis.
 Claudication is defined as cramping pain in the leg induced by exercise and relieved by
rest. It occurs after a fixed and reproducible distance and resolves with rest. The pain
is described as discomfort, cramping, numbness, or tiredness in the legs. Claudication
most commonly occurs in the calf muscles, but it can also affect the feet, thighs, hips,
and buttocks. It is crucial to determine to what extent the patient’s claudication affects
their lifestyle during history taking.
 Table 1 lists various differential diagnosis of leg pain, which can help differentiate claudication from pseudoclaudication and other types of leg pain. Table 1 is also helpful in
differentiating between other types of leg pain, pseudoclaudication, and true claudication.
 Chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) is when a patient with PAD has rest
pain or tissue loss. CLTI manifests as rest pain or tissue loss. Rest pain is characterized
as pain in the dorsum of the foot and toes at rest (i.e., without exertion such as walking).
The pain may worsen with leg elevation and many patients wake up in the middle of the

36

due the pain. They often state the pain improves by dangling their affected limb over
the side of their bed, which leads to better blood fow to the foot thanks to gravity.
 Tissue loss is often present in the form of a nonhealing wound, ulcer, or gangrene anywhere along the toes, foot, or lower leg. It is imperative you determine how long the
tissue