 a lesser degree to the shape of the container (i.e. vessel). - The Coda balloon
(Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN) is semi-compliant and used to temporarily occlude
large vessels.
Non-Compliant balloons: - Non-compliant infate to a predetermined shape and size. They are commonly used in angioplasty of peripheral and/or visceral stenosed vessels.

Figure 4: Angioplasty with a non-compliant balloon courtesty of J. Heuser, and Wikimedia.
Intraoperatively surgeons will often ask for the pressures of the balloon before using. Noncompliant balloons have a nominal pressure, which is the average pressure in atmospheres
(atm) required to infate the balloon to its predetermined size, and a burst pressure, where
99.9% of balloons will not burst if infated to this pressure.

193

Stents
Stents may be covered or uncovered. Covered stents do not allow fow between the lumen
of the stent and surrounding tissues, in contrast to uncovered (bare metal) stents which
do allow fow through the stent.
Stents can be categorized by the means of deployment.
Self-expanding stents use a recoil mechanism during deployment to achieve a set diameter
using stored energy from the packing of the stent.
Key characteristics of self-expanding stents:

Flexible
Low profile
Deformable
Low radial force (lower dissection risk)

Balloon-expandable stents are packaged around a balloon. The surgeon uses the balloon
inside the stent to achieve a specific diameter based on the pressure used to infate the balloon. As the diameter of the stent increases with higher balloon pressure, the length of stent
decreases.
Key characteristics of balloon-expandable stents:


Rigid
Large profile
Maintains shape over time
More accurate deployment
High radial force (higher risk of dissection)

Ď Tip
Highly tortuous vessels often require a self-expanding stent because of the increased
fexibility needed to prevent kinking or in-stent restenosis.
Heavily calcified vessels often require the increased radial force of balloonexpandable stents to achieve full patency.

Endografts
Endografts are tubes of fabric and interwoven metal used to exclude the diseased segment of
an artery from circulation. The goal of an endograft