. Patients with vascular disease tend to have more distal
vessels affected before proximal. Choice A is incorrect because the geniculate arteries
themselves are collaterals. Although there is a chance that these will be affected by vasculopathy, it is unlikely that only they will be affected. D is a representation of imaging
in a patient with femoral artery disease. Choice E is a scenario that would rarely ever
occur without proximal tibial artery being occluded.

Introduction
Ď Tip
The term peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is often used interchangeably with peripheral
vascular disease (PVD) when referring to arterial blockages.
Chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI) is defined as the presence of peripheral
arterial disease (PAD) with associated ischemic rest pain, gangrene, or lower limb
non-healing ulceration for greater than 2 weeks duration
The prevalence of PAD is approximately 6% in patients aged 40 years or older in the United
States. Amongst patients with PAD, 11% of patients (approximately 2 million individuals)
will present with CLTI within their lifetime.(Conte et al. 2019c)
CLTI has an increased risk of amputation, cardiovascular morbidity, and mortality.

Etiology
CLTI is a severe manifestation of peripheral arterial disease (PAD), a disease caused by the
build-up of atherosclerotic plaque in the arteries. The pattern of occlusive disease can be
found in one or a combination of locations including the aortoiliac or infrainguinal vessels
(i.e. femoral, popliteal, and tibial arteries) with varying lesion lengths. The superficial femoral
artery (SFA) is the most common location where lesions occur. Amongst diabetics, it is typical
to find heavier disease burdens more distally, such as the infrapopliteal, tibial vessels (i.e. the
tibial trunk, anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal arteries).

115

Ď Tip
Here is an image that demonstrates the various peripheral vessels that can be diseased
and occluded in a patient with CLTI.
Risk factors for CLTI are the same as for PAD and include advanced age, race (with nonhispanic blacks having the highest risk), male gender,