 has no know history of coronary artery

48

disease, has a preserved ejection fraction and good functional status. He has a lowdensity lipoprotein level (LDL) of 200 mg/dL. What is the best treatment option for this
individual?
A. Transfemoral carotid artery angioplasty with placement on ASA only.
B. Carotid artery enterectomy with shunt placement.
C. Daily ASA therapy without any type of statin or antihypertensive therapy.
D. Trancarotid artery revascularization (TCAR) surgery with dual antiplatelet therapy.
E. No treatment is indicated.
Answer
D. Transcarotid artery revascularization surgery with dual antiplatelet therapy.
Discussion: This patient has symptomatic carotid stenosis with an overall optimal coronary health. Because his lesion is high at C1 and not surgically accessible, they would
not qualify for a traditional carotid endarterectomy. Transfemoral carotid artery angioplasty is not indicated without stent placement, and daily ASA therapy without statin
treatment for an LDL of 200mg/dL does not qualify as optimal medical management.
Surgical treatment is indicated in this symptomatic patient since he has no significant
cardiopulmonary disease and TCAR is the only option listed that could accomplish this
outcome successfully.
4. A 60-year-old otherwise healthy woman, with no underlying comorbidities has a right
carotid artery bruit on physical examination. She is concerned that she is at risk for
stroke. She denies any episodes of vision changes, upper or lower extremity deficits, or
speech impairments. She currently takes 81mg of aspirin daily, along with a multivitamin.
What is the next step in management for this patient?
A. No further treatment necessary.
B. Carotid duplex.
C. CT angiogram head and neck.
D. Neurology evaluation.
E. Addition of statin therapy.
Answer
A. No further treatment necessary.
Discussion: This patient has an incidental finding of a carotid bruit on physical exam,

49

however she has no risk factors for carotid disease (such as smoking, hyperlipidemia,
smoking, family history, diabetes or hypertension). Additionally, she is neurologically
as