 Cranial
D. Caudal
E. AP (anterior posterior)
Answer
B. RAO (right anterior oblique)
Discussion: When the image intensifier is rotated more towards the right shoulder, this
is the RAO position making answer a correct. If the c-arm were rotated clockwise, with
the c-arm over the left shoulder, this would be the LAO position. As no mention was
made of rotating the c-arm towards the head or foot of the bed, answers c and d are
incorrect. The AP position was the initial position of the c-arm when it is perpendicular
to the OR table.
6. A 27 year old female who is a circulating nurse in the endovascular suite recently became
pregnant. She has informed the radiation safety oﬀcer and staff of the endovascular
suite. She is curious how best to monitor the radiation dose the fetus is receiving in
utero. Where should the nurse place the fetal dosimetry badge?
A. The dosimetry badge should be worn on the outside of the lead apron at chest level
B. The dosimetry badge should be worn under the lead apron around chest

213

C. The dosimetry badge should be worn outside the lead apron at the abdomen level.
D. The dosimetry badge should be worn under the lead apron at the abdomen level.
Answer
D. The dosimetry badge should be worn under the lead apron at the abdomen
level.
Discussion: To monitor the dose to the unborn child, the dosimeter badge should be worn
under the lead at the abdomen level, making answer d correct. We are concerned with the
amount of radiation that is able to pass through proper PPE. Wearing the badge outside
the lead apron will indicate the amount of radiation exposure in front of the shielding
and not an approximate fetal dose making answers a and c incorrect. If the badge is
worn at the level of the chest, the dose will also not be the most accurate, making answer
b incorrect.

Introduction
The use of radiation is fundamental to a vascular surgeon’s practice. Intraoperative fuoroscopy,
computer tomography (CT), and plain film X-rays (to a lesser extent) are crucial tools in
vascular surgery. The vascular surgery patient will likely undergo all these radiation-based
imaging studies.
Vascular surgeons and