 Carotid duplex.
C. CT angiogram head and neck.
D. Neurology evaluation.
E. Addition of statin therapy.
Answer
A. No further treatment necessary.
Discussion: This patient has an incidental finding of a carotid bruit on physical exam,

49

however she has no risk factors for carotid disease (such as smoking, hyperlipidemia,
smoking, family history, diabetes or hypertension). Additionally, she is neurologically
asymptomatic. Therefore, carotid duplex, CTA, neurology evaluation, and the addition
of statin therapy are not indicated. The prevalence of >75% carotid stenosis for those
with a carotid bruit has been found to be very low at 1.2%.
5. A 65-year-old man who is right-handed is undergoing evaluation for a coronary artery
bypass graft surgery (CABG). As part of his workup, a carotid duplex is performed
which demonstrates a chronic right carotid occlusion and a >80% stenosis of his left
carotid artery. He has no history of ocular or cerebrovascular events. He has hypercholesterolemia and well-controlled hypertension. What is the next best step for this
patient?
A. Proceed with the CABG as planned and continue medical therapy with aspirin and
statin.
B. Left carotid endarterectomy before the CABG.
C. Place the patient on dual antiplatelet therapy, in addition to statin therapy.
D. Left TCAR (transcarotid stent) after the CABG.
E. Place the patient on anticoagulation.
Answer
B. Left carotid endarterectomy before CABG.
Discussion: It is standard of care to assess the carotid arteries prior to performing
a CABG, with the goal of minimizing the risk of perioperative stroke. This patient
has asymptomatic bilateral severe carotid disease (right occlusion and left >80% stenosis). Therefore, to reduce the risk of perioperative stroke, current guidelines recommend
carotid revascularization prior or concomitant with the CABG. The patient does carry
one high risk criterion for TCAR (coronary disease requiring revascularization), however
this should not be performed after the CABG.