 disease presents to the emergency department with abdominal pain and a blood
pressure of 90/60 mm Hg. The emergency department physician already obtained a CT
scan showing what appears to be a contained rupture of an infrarenal abdominal aortic
aneurysm. What is the next step in management?
A. Resuscitate the patient to ensure a systolic blood pressure of at least 120 mm Hg.
B. Two large bore IVs and admission to the ICU for closer monitoring.
C. Transfer to the operating room for emergent repair of the aneurysm.

65

D. Corroboration of the CT scan with an abdominal ultrasound.
E. Contact the next of kin to request their presence at bedside for a family meeting.
Answer
C. Transfer to the operating room for emergent repair of the aneurysm.
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly
2. An 83-year-old female presents to your clinic with a 5.1cm abdominal aortic aneurysm.
She has a history of chronic tobacco abuse, hyperlipidemia, osteoarthritis, and renal cell
carcinoma status post left nephrectomy. She denies abdominal pain and is without significant physical exam findings. Based on her presentation, what is your recommendation
to her?
A. Continue surveillance with imaging every 6 months until her aneurysm reaches 5.5cm in
diameter.
B. Discuss repair of the aneurysm at this size.
C. Prescribe an antiplatelet, statin, and beta blocker prior to discussing operative repair of
the aortic aneurysm.
D. Continue surveillance with imaging every 12 months until her aneurysm reaches 5.5cm in
diameter.
E. Tobacco cessation should be confirmed prior to committing to aneurysm repair.
Answer
B. Discuss repair of the aneurysm at this size.
Discussion: Explanations to come shortly
3. A 68-year-old male with history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, tobacco abuse, obesity,
and gout is found to have a 5.9cm infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm with a 21mm
neck, patent common femoral arteries, but highly calcified/nearly occluded bilateral iliac
arteries. Upon discussing repair with him in your