 motion
Painless swelling,
often unilateral,
systemic symptoms

Bilateral swelling,
more prominent in
lower legs
Bilateral or
unilateral swelling,
typically without
significant pain
Bilateral swelling,
headache, visual
changes,
hypertension

160

History of injury;
localized swelling
May have “B”
symptoms (fever,
night sweats, weight
loss); consider
metastasis in older
adults
Medication history
important; often no
associated pain
Common side effect of
various medications
Requires urgent
evaluation; occurs
after 20 weeks of
pregnancy

Category

Condition

Key Features

Comments

Normal Pregnancy

Mild bilateral
swelling, worse at
end of day

Common in late
pregnancy due to
increased blood
volume and pressure
on pelvic veins

Diagnostics and Imaging
The diagnosis of CVD is suggested by the presence of typical symptoms (aching, throbbing,
fatigue, heaviness) and physical examination findings (varicose veins, edema, skin changes, and
ulceration). Duplex ultrasound is the initial diagnostic study to evaluate for CVD. It aims
to detect the presence of venous obstruction or venous refux. It is reproducible, noninvasive,
and inexpensive; it has largely replaced venography as the initial diagnostic imaging modality
for CVD.
Venous duplex ultrasound should be performed for patients with significant symptoms and
exam findings suggestive of venous obstruction or refux, lower extremity ulcers, history of
DVT presenting with persistent lower extremity symptoms (swelling, heaviness, pain), and for
patients where the cause of leg swelling is undetermined. Venous duplex ultrasound is also
helpful for planning interventions. Understanding the distribution and severity of venous refux
is essential. Given CVD can present with variable symptoms and signs, a standardized clinical
classification system for diagnosing CVD is critical to understanding the natural history of the
disease and how to best treat it. The Clinical-Etiology-Anatomy-Pathophysiology (CEAP)
classification system (Fig. 1) is used to determine the complexity of the clinical manifestations
of CVD, providing a reliable and reproducible classification system to describe the patient’s
current status. While CVD encompasses the full spectrum of abnormalities of the venous
system,