 purulence draining from his right great toe. His heart rate is 110

111

beats/min, his blood pressure is 100/80 mm Hg, and his temperature is 38.5ºC. Laboratory tests show a white blood count of 14,000/µL. An x-ray of his foot is performed,
which demonstrates gas in his right great toe. What is the best course of treatment?
A. Outpatient treatment with oral antibiotics and dressing changes.
B. Inpatient treatment with intravenous antibiotics alone.
C. Inpatient treatment with intravenous antibiotics and dressing changes.
D. Inpatient treatment with intravenous antibiotics and emergent surgical debridement .
Answer
D. Inpatient treatment with intravenous antibiotics and emergent surgical
debridement.
Discussion: This patient is septic from a diabetic wound infection. He is febrile and tachycardic, and he has relative hypotension. This type of patient should not be treated as an
outpatient. The correct treatment course involves admission, broad-spectrum antibiotics,
and source control with surgical debridement. Gas in the tissues on x-ray in the setting of
an infection is an ominous sign and should always prompt surgical debridement. Hence,
admission with intravenous antibiotics alone or admission with intravenous and dressing
changes alone are inadequate management. Hingorani A, LaMuraglia GM, Henke P, et
al. The management of diabetic foot: a clinical practice guideline by the Society for Vascular Surgery in collaboration with the American Podiatric Medical Association and the
Society for Vascular Medicine. J Vasc Surg. 2016;63(2S):3S-21S.
4. A 72-year-old female with diabetes has a chronic right heel ulcer that persists despite
local wound care. A magnetic resonance imaging scan demonstrates osteomyelitis of the
calcaneus, and a metal probe inserted into the ulcer can “probe to bone.” She has a
palpable ipsilateral dorsalis pedis pulse. Which operation would be most appropriate?
A. Transmetatarsal amputation.
B. Below-knee amputation.
C. Local calcaneus excision with full-thickness skin fap.
D. Above-knee amputation.
Answer
B. Below-knee amputation
Discussion