olus occurs, it often becomes lodged at an arterial bifurcation, usually at a narrowed
peripheral location where the arterial caliber changes. One of the more common locations
for obstruction is the common femoral artery at the bifurcation of the superficial femoral
artery and profunda femoris, which can lead to an acute arterial cutoff sign as seen in
the computed tomography angiogram described in this case. Patients presenting with
acute limb ischemia classically present with one or more of the six Ps: pulselessness,
pallor, pain, paresthesia, paralysis, and poikilothermia. The man has several of these
findings, making the diagnosis of an acute embolic event reasonable. The findings of
buttock claudication, erectile dysfunction, and decreased femoral pulses are a classic
presentation of Leriche syndrome, which is caused by chronic aortoiliac occlusive disease.
Bilateral decreased foot sensation and pain is more likely seen in a patient with diabetic
neuropathy and venous stasis. Reproducible calf pain that improves with rest and has
decreased signals is consistent with chronic peripheral arterial disease and claudication.
Lastly, a patient with loss of sensation, decreased motor function, and mottling of the skin
but with palpable femoral pulses has a high likelihood of having irreversible, Rutherford
III acute limb ischemia, commonly due to infrageniculate thrombosis.
5. A 74 year old male with a history of metastatic pancreatic cancer, hypertension, prior
HTN, hyperlipidemia presents to the ED with acute onset pain in his right leg. CT
scan shows cutoff sign at the P3 segment just proximal to the right tibial trifurcation.
In addition to pain, the patient endorses decreased sensation of his right lower leg. On
exam his right leg is cool to touch and has absent pedal and popliteal doppler signals.
What is the first step in management of this patient?
A. Emergent open surgical embolectomy with bypass
B. Catheter based thrombolysis
C. Percutaneous fogarty thrombectomy
D. Start a therapeutic heparin drip
Answer
D. Start a therapeutic heparin drip.
Discussion: The first step in treatment of acute limb ischemia before any intervention
is considered or initiated is systemic