.
Claudication is a symptom of peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Therefore, it is important to
first understand PAD before addressing claudication. PAD is a chronic condition of arterial
insuﬀciency due to the build-up of atherosclerotic plaque (or fatty deposits) in the arteries.
PAD affects 8.5 million adults in the U.S. and 202 million adults worldwide, with approximately 15% of the population aged greater than 70 years old suffering from PAD. Risk factors
for PAD include increasing age, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, renal disease, diabetes, and
smoking. The risk factors for claudication are the same risk factors described for PAD, including: advanced age, race (non-hispanic blacks), male gender, smoking, diabetes mellitus,
dyslipidemia, hypertension, renal insuﬀciency, and elevated homocysteine levels (hypercoagulable state). PAD has various distributions in the body including one or a combination of
aortoiliac, femoral, and infrapopliteal disease. PAD severity falls along a spectrum. Some
patients may be completely asymptomatic while others have nonhealing, chronically infected
wounds requiring later limb amputation. Vascular claudication is the mildest symptomatic
manifestation of the PAD spectrum.

Etiology
Prior to understanding the etiology of claudication and peripheral arterial disease. It is important to review the anatomy of the arterial blood fow of the lower extremity.

Anatomy
The arterial anatomy of the lower extremity is a complex network of arteries that supply blood
to the legs and feet. Please find an image here and a description below of the major arteries
from the common femoral artery down to the tibioperoneal trunk, anterior tibial, and dorsalis
pedis arteries:

94

 Common Femoral Artery (CFA): The common femoral artery is a large, thick-walled
artery located in the groin. It is a continuation of the external iliac artery and bifurcates
into the deep femoral artery (profunda femoris) and the superficial femoral artery.
 Superficial Femoral Artery (SFA): The superficial femoral artery is the largest
branch of the common femoral artery. It descends along the anterior and medial aspect of