 that patients undergo duplex ultrasound surveillance and duplex guided interventions to prompt
long-term patency. However, there are no set guidelines for how long and how frequently
to perform surveillance.
 Recommended methods of surveillance include clinic visits, ankle-brachial indexes
(ABIs), and duplex scans.
 Surveillance intervals can range from 3-6 months.
 Ultimately, there is no strong evidence of benefit of routine duplex surveillance after
endovascular intervention of CLTI; however, patients with the characteristics below may
benefit from duplex surveillance. (Conte et al. 2019d)
Patient Risk Factors that may Prompt Duplex Surveillance
Multiple failed angioplasties and failed bypasses
Severe ischemia
Unresolved tissue loss
Poor Infow

126

Patient Risk Factors that may Prompt Duplex Surveillance
New Infow Lesions

Vein and Prosthetic Bypass Surveillance
Surveillance of vein grafts after bypass surgery may solely be clinical and may include the vascular laboratory as well. The SVS recommends a 2 year surveillance program postoperatively
to detect new symptoms, monitor changes in ABIs, and monitor for stenotic lesions within
graft or at surveillance sites.
 Duplex surveillance and intervention based on duplex findings lead to better patency
rates of the vein graft.
 Though there are no set guidelines for frequency of surveillance. Many studies in the
literature often perform surveillance 30 days postoperatively and at 3-6 months intervals.
 Ultimately, though duplex surveillance does result in better patency of vein grafts, there
is no clear evidence that duplex surveillance for CLTI results in clinical benefits for
patients.
Prosthetic bypasses are known to fail more frequently and more early compared to vein bypasses. Similar to vein bypassess, the SVS does not have hard recommendations for when to
perform duplex surveillance.
 Many studies perform duplex at 30 days postoperatively and at 6 month intervals.
 Despite this, the duplex itself does not always always reliably detect intervenable lesions
as it does in vein bypasses.

Teaching Case
Scenario
A 73-year-old male with a significant smoking history and medical history including 4 vessel
coronary bypass 10 years ago, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes presents to clinic
for pain in his lower extremities. He states that it is diﬀcult for him to walk 3 blocks without