 chapter, students will:
 Review abdominal aortic anatomy and aneurysm pathophysiology.
 Recognize history, physical exam, and radiologic findings typical of patients presenting with an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
 Identify indications for intervention on abdominal aortic aneurysms and the
evidence-based foundation for these recommendations.
 Describe the basic procedural steps of both an endovascular and an open surgical
approach for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.
 Delineate appropriate surveillance intervals for imaging an abdominal aortic
aneurysm, both before and after intervention.
Key Facts
1. Abdominal aortic aneurysms occur in 2-8% of the population in Western countries,
with a slightly higher prevalence among males relative to females.
2. The average size of an abdominal aorta is approximately 2cm; hence, an aneurysm
is diagnosed when the diameter of the aorta in this segment reaches 3cm (i.e. 1.5x
normal diameter).
3. Risk factors for an abdominal aortic aneurysm growth include age, male sex, white
race, smoking, atherosclerosis, family history of arterial aneurysms, and personal
history of arterial aneurysms.
4. According to vascular surgery guidelines, elective repair of a fusiform abdominal
aortic aneurysm is recommended once the aneurysm has reached 5.5cm diameter in males and 5 cm diameter in females, measured from outer wall to outer
wall. Circumstances in which repair is indicated for smaller aneurysms include
those associated with symptoms and/or rupture, saccular morphology, rapid ex-

64

pansion, or those in females (as mentioned above), immunosuppressed patients
(i.e. chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or solid organ transplantation) and patients
with aortopathies (e.g. Marfan Syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, etc.).
5. Nearly 80% of abdominal aortic aneurysms are currently repaired via an endovascular approach, with an open surgical approach generally reserved for patients in
which a stent graft would perform poorly.
6. Outcomes following endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair have improved
over time, as experience has accrued with endovascular technique. This pattern of
progressive improvement has not similarly been seen