 outcomes of the management of claudication.
Key Facts
1. Peripheral arterial disease (PAD), also known as peripheral vascular disease (PVD),
is a condition characterized by atherosclerosis or narrowing of the arteries that
supply blood to the extremities.
2. PAD affects approximately 202 million individuals worldwide.
3. Major risk factors for PAD include smoking, diabetes, and advanced age.
4. Claudication is the mildest symptomatic manifestation of peripheral arterial disease.
5. Claudication is defined as reproducible discomfort in a specific muscle group,
typically in the lower extremities, that is induced by exercise and relieved by
rest.
6. Patients with claudication have an overall 5-year mortality risk of 10-15%.
7. Approximately 2-3% of claudicants (i.e. patients experiencing claudication) will
develop limb-threatening ischemia.

88

8. Claudication is managed conservatively with lifestyle modifications including exercise regimen, dietary changes, smoking cessation, and medical optimization to
control hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and or diabetes.
Claudication Slide Deck
Please find the slide deck corresponding to this eBook chapter here.
Ď How We Suggest Using the Pre/Post Questions
The pre/post questions are listed below. They are all multiple choice questions with
a single right answer. To best guide your learning, we have hidden the answers in a
collapsible menu. Before reading the chapter, we suggest giving the questions a try,
noting your answers on a notepad. After reading the chapter, return to the questions, reevaluate your answers, and then open the collapsible menu to read the correct answer and
discussion. Do not fret if you have diﬀculty answering the questions before reading the
chapter! By the end of the chapter, we are certain you will have covered the knowledge
necessary to answer the questions. There will be a teaching case at the end of the chapter.
This is another opportunity to exercise your new knowledge!

Pre/Post Questions
Case Based Questions
1. A 70-year-old male, who has a history of heavy smoking (100 pack years), presents to
the clinic for claudication-like symptoms. What level of infrainguinal arterial occlusive
disease is he most at risk for developing based on this history?
A. Superficial femoral artery disease.
B. Deep femoral artery