-24
Popliteal               4.7                         4-6
Pedal                   2.1                         4

Balloons, Stents, and Endografts
The delivery system for balloons consists of a catheter over the wire with the balloon built
into the catheter tip. As such, advancing the balloon into place for angioplasty is no different
from advancing a small catheter without a balloon.
Similar to balloons, stents are contained in catheters that are advanced into position over wires.
The interventional component (i.e. stent) is near the tip of the catheter.
Both stents and balloons can elute drugs, most commonly Paclitaxel, an antiproliferative agent.
Paclitaxel is lipophilic and remains active in the vessel wall following the procedure, preventing
neointimal hyperplasia and improving patency.The impetus for using a drug-eluting stent or
balloon in place of a standard stent or balloon is to decrease the chances of vascular remodeling
following the procedure that may lead to restenosis.
In contrast to drug-eluting stents, drug-eluting balloons have the advantage of not leaving
hardware in the vessel after intervention. Contrarily, drug-eluting stents remain in the vessel
lumen after intervention, but are able to continue providing radial force.

192

Balloons
Balloons are versatile endovascular tools and can be categorized by the degree to which they
assume of the shape of the vessel.
Compliant balloons: - Compliant balloons infate to a specific volume and conform to the
shape of the vessel. - For example, the Fogarty balloon is a compliant balloon that can be
used to remove thrombi in both open and endovascular procedures.
Semi-Compliant balloons: - These balloons have a slightly more rigid shape and therefore
conform to a lesser degree to the shape of the container (i.e. vessel). - The Coda balloon
(Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN) is semi-compliant and used to temporarily occlude
large vessels.
Non-Compliant balloons: - Non-compliant infate to a predetermined shape and size. They are commonly used in angioplasty of peripheral and/or visceral stenosed vessels.

Figure 4: Angioplasty with a non-compliant balloon courtesty of J