 for Atherectomy
As plaque is broken into smaller pieces, there is a significant risk for distal embolization
of plaque debris. To prevent this, an embolic protection device is often used which can
filter blood and catch any smaller particulate matter that travels distally. Some of the
devices include an aspiration device to remove clot and thrombus as it is removed.
There is ongoing research into the outcomes of atherectomy versus stenting alone, but
generally, the long-term patency rate is similar.(“Atherectomy for Lower Extremity Intervention: Why, When, and Which Device?” n.d.)
 Thrombolysis: a procedure where the clot is dissolved often with tPA and heparin
to treat an acute thrombotic event. Often, angiograms are performed for acute limb
ischemia from a clot rather than atherosclerotic disease. A lysis catheter or CraggMacnamara catheter can be placed. The Cragg-Macnamara catheter is a long
catheter with multiple side ports where medication can be infused over the length of
a thrombosed artery. This catheter can be left in place for 24-48 hours and the medication is allowed to “bust” the acute clot. After this, the patient will be brought back
to the operating room to evaluate the progress of the clot dissolution.(Giannakakis et al.
2017)
 Thrombectomy: a procedure where acute or subacute thrombus is removed from a vessel. This can be accomplished in a variety of ways. Commonly, a suction thrombectomy
system can be used to remove thrombus from a vessel using vacuum force for example
using the Penumbra system. Alternatively, a mechanical thrombectomy can be performed where a Fogarty catheter is deployed past a thrombus, a balloon infated at the
end of the catheter, and then manually pulled back towards an arteriotomy and the clot
then removed.(Karnabatidis et al. 2011)

Fistulograms
A fistulogram is an angiographic study used to interrogate and troubleshoot a disfunctional
arteriovenous fistula.
Common complications of fistulas include:
 Anastomotic strictures.

199

 Infow issues (such as atherosclerosis of the infow artery).
