-year-old man with a history of uncontrolled diabetes, atrial fibrillation, and hypertension presents to the emergency department for pain in his left leg. A computed
tomography angiogram shows a cutoff sign at the left femoral at the bifurcation of the
superficial femoral artery and the profunda femoris artery. Which of the following physical examination findings would be seen in this man if your suspected etiology is an acute
arterial embolism?
A. Reproducible buttock pain after ambulation, atrophy of calf muscles, erectile dysfunction,
and absent femoral pulses.
B. Bilateral decreased foot sensation, bilateral lower leg pain that is relieved with elevation,
and palpable pedal and femoral pulses.
C. Calf pain that is reproducible after ambulating 50 feet, which resolves with rest, monophasic pedal signals, and palpable femoral pulses.
D. Decreased foot and lower leg sensation, lower leg pain, leg pallor, decreased temperature
compared to contralateral leg, and absent pedal and femoral pulses.
E. Loss of sensation over the foot, complete loss of motor function at the ankle joint, and
mottling of the skin on the foot, absent pedal pulses, and palpable popliteal and femoral
pulses.
Answer
D. Decreased foot and lower leg sensation, lower leg pain, leg pallor, decreased
temperature compared to contralateral leg, and absent pedal and femoral

134

pulses.
Discussion: An arterial embolism refers to an acute event where thrombogenic material
lodges in an arterial tree, usually at a branching point. Various etiologies exist, including
septic and cardiogenic sources. In a patient with atrial fibrillation, a laminated thrombus
with a cardiac origin is likely the cause of his embolus. As previously mentioned, when an
embolus occurs, it often becomes lodged at an arterial bifurcation, usually at a narrowed
peripheral location where the arterial caliber changes. One of the more common locations
for obstruction is the common femoral artery at the bifurcation of the superficial femoral
artery and profunda femoris, which can lead to an acute arterial cutoff sign as seen in
the computed tomography angiogram described in this case. Patients presenting with
acute limb ischemia classically present with one