 transmetatarsal level with the functional foot no
longer salvageable. Patients with major tissue loss most often receive amputations.
Fontaine Grade

The Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) classication
 The Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) classification was proposed in 2014 as an
integrated lower extremity wound classification and prognositcation system. The WIfI
classification was inspired by the tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) staging system for
cancer.
 Incorporating the presence and severity of lower extremity wounds, ischemia, and infection, the classification system informs providers of the risk of lower extremity amputation
and potential benefit of revascularization.
 For the limb in question, a severity grade of 0 to 3 is assigned to the severity and extent
of wound, ischemia and foot infection, respectively, where 0 presentes none, 1 mild, 2,
moderate and 3 severe disease.

119

the combination of these three scores assigns the limb in question
to one of four threatened limb clinical stages.
 While an oversimplication, the premise of the WIfI system is that the risk of amputation
increases as the disease burden of the limb in question progresses from WIfI stage 1 (very
low risk) to tage 4 (high risk).



The Global Limb Anatomic Staging System (GLASS) Classication
 The Global Limb Anatomic Staging System (GLASS) is a framework to estimate the
success of lower limb revascularization based on the extent and the distribution of the
atherosclerotic lesion. By categorizing the patient’s lesion into one of three GLASS
stages, the surgeon can predict the likelihood of immediate technical failure and oneyear limb-based patency (LBP) following endovascular intervention. This information is
extremely informative when planning a surgical intervention.
 To perform GLASS staging, the surgeon must obtain high quality imaging of the lower
extremity to score the length and burden of disease femoropopliteal segment (FP) and
infrapopliteal segment (IP).

The Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Concensus (TASC classication)
In 2000,