ed transposition. This autogenous access is performed between the end of the cephalic vein and the
brachial artery in the antecubital fossa. The cephalic vein is
identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa
through a single incision or multiple incisions. The brachial
or proximal radial artery is identified within the proximal
portion of this incision or, if located far away, a second
incision is made overlying the artery. The cephalic vein is
tunneled superficially in a forearm loop to the artery to
perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous radial– basilic forearm transposition. This
autogenous access is performed between the end of the
basilic vein and the radial artery in the forearm. The basilic
vein is identified in the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa. The radial artery is identified through a longitudinal incision directly overlying the palpable radial artery
pulse. The basilic vein is tunneled superficially and laterally
to the radial artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous ulnar– basilic forearm transposition. This
autogenous access is performed between the end of the
basilic vein and the ulnar artery in the forearm. The basilic
vein is identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa. The ulnar artery is identified through a longitudinal incision directly overlying the palpable ulnar artery
pulse. The basilic vein is tunneled superficially and laterally
to the ulnar artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– basilic forearm looped transposition. This autogenous access is performed between the end of the basilic vein and the brachial
or proximal radial artery in the antecubital fossa. The basilic
vein is identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa. The artery is identified within the proximal
portion of this incision or, if located far away, a second
longitudinal incision is made overlying the artery. The
basilic vein is tunneled superficially in a forearm loop to the
artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous radial–ant