1.4%, respectively. These results for
CAS and CEA were both within the AHA recommended
guidelines.13 In addition, the primary composite end point
of the study that included any periprocedural stroke, death,
MI, or postprocedural ipsilateral stroke was 3.5% for CAS
and 3.6% for CEA (P ⫽ 0.96). These results are considerably better than any other large study, including ACAS and
ACST for both procedures.225
The CREST results confirm that CEA and CAS can be
done with relatively low complication rates in asymptomatic patients when performed by highly experienced practitioners who use their best judgment to select the most
appropriate patient to be entered into the study. This study
provides a benchmark to strive for, but no other large trials
have achieved these results.
Unfortunately, the authors did not record the number
of patients excluded from the study because they were not
considered “good” candidates for any of the proposed
procedures. Thus, the true applicability of CEA and CAS in
the general population is unknown. This observation may
lead one to believe that the CREST results reflect the best
possible selection of candidates for CAS. This is particularly
true when these results are compared with the considerably
worse results presented in SAPPHIRE, the only other
extant trial with a large number of asymptomatic patients.
Data published by the Society for Vascular Surgery
Outcomes Committee demonstrated that real-world CAS
was associated with a significantly higher rate of major
complications than CEA in asymptomatic patients.226 The
30-day outcome analysis of CAS and CEA in 2818 patients
revealed the combined death, stroke, or MI rate for 1450
CAS patients was 4.6% vs 1.97% for 1368 CEA patients.
Other studies of larger databases7,8,201,215 have yielded
similar results.
Further conclusions on the role of intervention in
asymptomatic patients await the results of two additional
randomized prospective studies designed to compare the
early and long-term results of CEA vs CAS and best medical
management: The Carotid Stenting vs Surgery of Severe
Carotid Artery Disease and Stroke Prevention in Asym