 is not typically performed in
the dialysis unit. The increasing availability of portable
laptop based systems may alter this in the future. However,
DU imaging is currently not an easily accessible or a costeffective method for routine access surveillance.
Finally, abnormalities related to the dialysis session
have a 69% positive predictive value for significant stenosis.
Within this last category, the predictive value of prolonged
bleeding from the needle sites is 76%, difficulty with can-

Sidawy et al 15S

nulation is 58%, and aspiration of clots is 30%. In addition,
an unexplained decrease (⬎0.2 U) in delivered dialysis dose
(Kt/V) on a fixed dialysis prescription has a 69% positive
predictive value for significant stenosis.
Monitoring and surveillance by access type. 1. Autogenous access. The best, most feasible tools for identifying
dysfunction in autogenous access include (1) physical examination (monitoring), (2) routine measurement of prepump ADP at every dialysis session, and (3) serial access
blood flow measurements. In addition, although not recommended for routine surveillance, a recirculation study
can help in select cases of autogenous access dysfunction to
confirm inadequate access flow because recirculation results
when access flow falls below dialysis blood pump demand.
This study has little value with a prosthetic access because
prosthetic accesses will usually thrombose at low flows that
do not support adequate dialysis, whereas autogenous accesses will remain patent at very low flows, thereby permitting inadequate dialysis to proceed without noticeable
etiology.
2. Prosthetic access. Prosthetic access function is best
and most feasibly followed up by (1) a physical examination
(monitoring), (2) serial access blood flow measurements,
and (3) serial static VDP measurements.
Diagnostic tests: DU scanning and imaging
studies. Although DU can be used as a diagnostic tool for
access stenosis, it has some limitations, especially for identifying lesions behind bone, as in subclavian vein stenosis. A
major advantage is that it is noninvasive. If an etiology for
access dysfunction is not identified by DU scanning, an
imaging study should be performed. A contrast imaging
study or other imaging studies such as MRA of the access is