 segment of an
autogenous access free to be continuously used for
dialysis, obviating the need for catheter placement while
the new replacement segment incorporates or matures.
This is well demonstrated when a prosthetic access
thrombosis due to a hyperplastic lesion at the graft–vein

Sidawy et al 19S

interface is being surgically repaired. A longitudinal
incision is made in the prosthetic graft and extended to
the vein through the lesion. A Fogarty catheter is used
to perform thrombectomy from the longitudinal incision. When the thrombectomy is complete, as evidenced by excellent arterial inflow, the longitudinal
incision is closed using a patch that widens the lumen at
the venous anastomotic site. The incorporated main
body of the access can then be used for dialysis immediately after the conclusion of the procedure without the
need for percutaneous catheter placement.
2. Endovascular techniques: clot can be managed by a
variety of endovascular techniques or thrombolysis and
the stenotic lesions can also be managed using balloon
angioplasty and stenting techniques.
3. Combination of both techniques:
a. Open balloon catheter thrombectomy through a
small transverse incision remote from both the arterial
and venous anastomosis of a prosthetic access.
b. Angiographic imaging of the entire graft including
arterial anastomosis and entire venous outflow.
c. Open revision or balloon angioplasty of graft, anastomotic or venous outflow tract stenoses.
ACCESS CONFIGURATIONS
Autogenous accesses
Forearm autogenous accesses. Autogenous posterior radial branch– cephalic direct wrist access (snuffbox). This autogenous access is performed between the end of the cephalic vein and the posterior branch of the radial artery
located in the anatomic snuffbox. The cephalic vein and
radial artery are identified through a single longitudinal
incision overlying the palpable posterior branch of the
radial artery pulse. The artery is found in the base of the
snuffbox between the tendons of the extensor pollicis longus and brevis.
Autogenous radial– cephalic direct wrist access (BresciaCimino-Appel).
This autogenous access is performed between the end of
