
The targets discussed in this text are based on reduction of cardiovascular events, but it should be noted
that this is a composite endpoint and the deﬁnition between trials differs. MALE is also sometimes differently
deﬁned and the evidence for reducing lower limb events
in persons with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer by pharmacological treatment is scarce. For this reason, a speciﬁc recommendation on this topic could not be made.

FUTURE RESEARCH PRIORITIES
One of the main limitations of this guideline is the lack
of prospective randomised trials, inconsistency of

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1127

Volume 78, Number 5

classiﬁcation and outcomes reported, and lack of separation of outcome for people with CLTI with and without
diabetes. Data reporting on PAD in relation to diagnosis,
prognosis, and management overwhelmingly relate to
the general population. There is a paucity of high level
evidence for diagnosis and management of those with
DFU or gangrene, with studies frequently including only
persons with intact feet or inadequately detailing (or
controlling for) confounding factors including presences
of neuropathy, ulcer, infection, or other contributors to
poor outcomes. Moreover, few studies in CLTI cohorts
provide subanalysis for those with diabetes, although
they are likely to make up the majority of the included
population. As such, there is clearly a need for further
research into this unique subgroup of individuals with
diabetes, so that outcomes around the world can be
improved. The Writing Committee considers there are a
number of priority areas for future research. The systematic review of the prognostic capacity of bedside vascular
testing to predict DFU healing and amputation outcomes demonstrated a lack of investigations of sufﬁcient
quality for several widely available tests including TBI and
TcPO2, with inconsistent use of measurement thresholds
and a lack of data examining the effect of combining
test outcomes. New technologies to develop optimal
tools and measures of foot perfusion for people with
DFU and PAD to guide revascularisation therapies would
be invaluable in guiding revascularisation strategies for
individuals and for determining when more aggressive
strategies are indicated.
Further questions. Which group of people with diabetes and a DFU, tissue loss, or gangrene most beneﬁt
