 1 year.227 Patients
randomized to physical exercise training did not demonstrate improvements in any outcome measure. Mortality
and amputation rates were identical in both groups.
In a retrospective review, Koivunen and Lukkarinen228
demonstrated that surgically treated patients had superior clinical outcomes and health-related QoL compared with EVT
and conservative management. Speciﬁc improvements in surgically treated patients at 1 year included improvement in
pain, mobility, sleep, and emotional reactions.
Additional factors determining the success of surgical
bypass for claudication include technical and anatomic factors such as conduit, target vessel, and runoff. Available
prospective, randomized data regarding choice of conduit
for FP bypass demonstrate superior patency for vein grafts,
even to an above-knee popliteal target, compared with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

PTFE bypass, after 2 to 3 years of follow-up.229 In most
patients, sustained walking improvement and improved
QoL depend on maintenance of patency of the surgical
reconstruction. This is particularly important when treating
IC given the better functional ability and longer life expectancy compared with patients with limb-threatening
ischemia.
However, when suitable autologous vein is unavailable,
prosthetic bypass for claudication may be reasonable.
AbuRahma et al230 reported no difference in primary
patency rates between saphenous vein and PTFE bypass
in patients with IC and at least two-vessel to three-vessel
runoff. Assisted primary patency rates were still statistically
higher for vein grafts. The quality of the runoff circulation
may also affect the results of surgical treatment for claudication. Zannetti et al231 determined that absence of diabetes, minimal cardiac comorbidities, and angiograms
predicting near normalization of the postoperative ABI
resulted in excellent late outcomes and patient satisfaction
in 82% of patients meeting these criteria.
The popliteal artery is the most common outﬂow vessel
when an infrainguinal bypass is performed for claudication,
usually above the knee. However, properly selected patients without a suitable popliteal artery target may also
beneﬁt from bypass. In a retrospective study of 57
femoral