 of other injuries, observation of minimal aortic defects, selective (vs
routine) revascularization in cases of left subclavian artery coverage, and that spinal drainage is not routinely required in these
cases. ( J Vasc Surg 2011;53:187-92.)

Blunt traumatic thoracic aortic injury is associated with
a high mortality rate, and has been implicated as the second
most common cause of death in trauma patients, behind
From the Christine E. Lynn Heart and Vascular Institute, Boca Raton;a Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Wisconsin, Madison;b Department of
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University, Palo Alto;c Division of Vascular
Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill;d Department of Vascular
Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland;e Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Texas Houston Medical School, Houston;f Division of
Preventive, Occupational and Aerospace Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester;g
and Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.h
Competition of interest: Dr Lee received research support and consultation fees
from Cook, Medtronic, and Bolton Medical. Dr Matsumura has grants for
research and training from Abbott, Cook, Covidien, Endologix, and W. L.
Gore. Dr Mitchell has no conflict of interest disclosures. Dr Farber received
consultant fees from W. L. Gore, Medtronic, Cook, Aptus Endosystems, and
Bolton Medical. Dr Greenberg received research support from Cook and
W. L. Gore. He has IP/License agreements with Cook. Dr Azizzadeh
received consultation fees from Medtronic and W. L. Gore. Dr Murad has no
conflict of interest disclosures. Dr Fairman received research support from
Abbott, Medtronic, Cook, Aptus, and Boston Scientific.
Presented at the 2010 Vascular Annual Meeting of the Society for Vascular
Surgery, June 10-13, 2010, Boston, Mass.
Reprint requests: W. Anthony Lee, MD, Director of Endovascular Program,
Christine E. Lynn Heart and Vascular Institute, 670 Glades Road, Suite
No 300 Boca Raton, FL 33431