 safe deployment of the distal
end of the stents without trapping of the ﬁlter. Visualization of the sheath should be maintained at all times to
prevent prolapse of the sheath into the arch, which could
dislodge the ﬁlter and pull it through the carotid
lesion.366
The main disadvantage of using distal ﬁlters is that the
lesion must be passed initially which increases risk of cerebral embolization. The ﬁlters can also become
occluded if a large amount of debris is released. Moreover, small particulate debris (<100 mm) can pass
through the pores of the ﬁlter. Improper movement of
the device might damage the surrounding vessel wall
and lead to dislodgement of fragments and debris
around the ﬁlter. In the case of very tight or extremely

60S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

tortuous lesions, systems that are advanced over an independent wire and not attached to a wire itself may be
preferable. These systems ﬁrst advance the guidewire
and then track the EPD over that wire. An angiogram is
usually obtained before completion and removal of the
EPD. If extensive amounts of debris are trapped within
the EPD, blood ﬂow in the ICA might stop. In this case,
the resultant standing column of blood and any embolic
debris should be aspirated to prevent embolization
when the EPD is withdrawn.366 An aspiration catheter
with a side port might be needed to evacuate the standing column of debris.
Distal occlusion devices. Distal occlusion devices are
not commonly used and have largely been abandoned
in current practice. Similar to distal ﬁlters, a distal occlusion device initially requires the crossing of the lesion,
which can result in increased embolization. Also, this device has the disadvantage of stopping blood ﬂow during
stenting. However, it does have an advantage of smaller
diameter than proximal occlusion devices. If these devices used, it is crucial to aspirate adequately after stenting and before balloon deﬂation to remove all debris.
Vasospasm may be encountered before or just after ﬁlter
or oc