 common iliac
veins (May-Thurner syndrome).69-71 Diffuse pain is more
frequently associated with axial venous reflux, whereas poor
venous circulation in bulging varicose veins usually causes
local pain.
History. A thorough medical history is essential in the
patient’s evaluation and may establish the diagnosis of
primary, secondary, or congenital varicosities. Questions
to patients who present with varicose veins should address
previous DVT or thrombophlebitis, established thrombophilia, medication history (particularly birth control pills),
smoking, pregnancies, and a family history of varicosity or
thrombotic disorders. Premenopausal women with varicose
veins should also be questioned for symptoms of pelvic
congestion syndrome (pelvic pain, aching, or heaviness;
dyspareunia). Advanced age is the most important risk
factor for varicose veins and for CVI. A positive family
history, female sex, and multiparity are also risk factors for
varicose veins, and a positive family history and obesity are
risk factors for CVI.57
Physical examination. Clinical evaluation should focus on signs of venous disease, and examination in the
standing patient in a warm room, with good light, should
establish the size, location, and distribution of varicose
veins. Inspection and palpation are essential parts of the
examination, and auscultation (bruit) is particularly helpful
in those with vascular malformation and arteriovenous
fistula.71 Varicose dilations or venous aneurysms, palpable
cord in the vein, tenderness, a thrill, bruit, or pulsatility
should be recorded. In addition, the presence of spider
veins or telangiectasia, limb swelling that is usually partially
pitting or nonpitting, induration, pigmentation, lipodermatosclerosis, atrophie blanche, eczema, dermatitis, skin
discoloration, increased skin temperature, and healed or
active ulcers should be documented.
Ankle mobility should also be examined, because patients with advanced venous disease frequently have decreased mobility in the ankle joints. Sensory and motor
functions of the limb and foot are assessed to help differen-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR