 Vascular Surgery guidelines
for management of extracranial carotid disease. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:e1-31. The following corrections are needed for
this article:
In the abstract on page e1, the following text needs to be removed: “In contrast to the multispecialty guidelines
recently published,” The corrected sentence should read, “The committee recommends CEA as the first-line
treatment for most symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic patients with stenosis of 60%
to 99%.”
On page e2, the following sentences need to be removed: “As with most multispecialty documents, however, the
conclusions drawn do not necessarily represent the unanimous opinion of the participating organizations. Although
the Society for Vascular Surgery supported this multispecialty effort, there were significant concerns about how some
of the presented data were analyzed and the recommendations that followed from this analysis. In particular, there
was concern about how the results of the two recent randomized trials9,10 were interpreted and the relative weight
given to these results in developing final guidelines regarding carotid interventions.”

CORRECTION
Riccota JJ, AbuRahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P, Lal BK. Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines
for management of extracranial carotid disease: Executive summary. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:832-6. The following
corrections are needed for this article:
In the abstract on page 832, the following text needs to be removed: “In contrast to the multispecialty guidelines
recently published,”. The corrected sentence should read, “The committee recommends CEA as the first-line
treatment for most symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic patients with stenosis of 60%
to 99%.”
On page 833, the following sentences need to be removed: “However, as with most multispecialty documents, the
conclusions drawn do not necessarily represent the unanimous opinion of the participating organizations. In
particular, the Society for Vascular Surgery had significant concerns about how some of the recent trial data were
analyzed and the recommendations that