 to an extent that no further treatment will be
needed. Some patients with truncal and tributary reﬂux
might only want the discomfort from their varicose veins
relieved, without a desire to eliminate the visible tributaries. Thus, ablating the truncal vein might relieve
enough discomfort that a second procedure will never
be necessary. During the shared decision-making process, patients might request a staged approach with
minimally invasive treatment of the tributaries using
physician-compounded foam, commercial foam, or
liquid sclerotherapy as an alternative to miniphlebectomy, which might be the only procedure
approved by the patient’s insurance company as a
concomitant procedure. Some patients also might not
have large enough symptomatic tributaries for their
treatment to be covered by insurance; therefore, they
might delay tributary treatment until the tributaries
become larger or until they have adequate ﬁnancial resources to pay for the procedure. Patients with diffuse
bilateral varicosities and bilateral saphenous incompetence can safely undergo bilateral ablation; however, the
additional concomitant phlebectomies might be too
much for the patient and/or provider. Patients who elect
the staged approach must be informed that a distinct
likelihood exists of needing a second procedure, whether
mini-phlebectomy, liquid sclerotherapy, or foam
sclerotherapy.
Evidence. Two studies using the ﬁrst-generation RFA
catheters examined the fate of residual varicosities after
ablation alone. Monahan211 had ablated the GSV in 54
limbs. At 6 months, complete resolution of the varicose
tributaries was found in 13% limbs and 28.4% of the
varicose veins had spontaneously resolved. An additional
88.7% of the varicose veins had decreased in size by
average of 34.6%. Welch212 studied 184 limbs treated with
GSV RFA. Of the 155 limbs with successful total ablation
or only a patent segment <10 cm long, 101 (65.1%) had

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

255

