 powered phlebectomy.36 The VCSS improved signiﬁcantly more with ablation plus Trivex compared with ablation alone. In this
study, all patients were wrapped with a short-stretch
compression bandage immediately after the procedure
and encouraged to ambulate. They were compressed
for at least 2 weeks postoperatively, with long-term

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

23

Volume 7, Number 1

compression determined by the status of reﬂux in the
deep venous system. Using this algorithm, patients
demonstrated a signiﬁcant improvement in VCSS with
a complication rate of 1.6% DVT, 3.7% endothermal
heat-induced thrombosis, 0.82% infection, 5.1% hematoma, and 4.9% superﬁcial thrombophlebitis.
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
varicose vein guidelines have addressed the question of
compression duration on the basis of two studies, one
with foam sclerotherapy plus compression vs sclerotherapy alone and one with venous surgery plus compression
vs venous surgery alone. The guidelines suggest, “If offering compression bandaging or hosiery for use after interventional treatment, do not use for more than 7 days.”
In addition, “As there was no convincing evidence for
using or not using compression therapy the Guideline
Development Group [GDG] felt they could not make a
recommendation not to use stockings at all post
intervention and the consensus was that in their clinical
experience some people post-surgery did feel beneﬁt
from wearing stockings. However, the GDG, taking into
account the cost of compression therapy, felt they could
not recommend its long term use. Patients can be
advised that in most instances they are able to return
to work whilst wearing compression bandaging or
hosiery.”
Thus, it is clear that the real issue may not be compression after venous surgery but that the compression
needs to be tailored to the overall status of the venous
insufﬁciency. In a patient with only superﬁcial venous
reﬂux, compression may not be needed at all or may
be needed only for the ﬁrst few hours to