
by division of the digastric muscle and subluxation or
division of the mandible, as required.195,196 Although
rarely required, these high carotid exposures may be associated with increased difficulty in directly visualizing the
end point of the endarterectomy and with increased incidence of cranial nerve injury, particularly cranial nerve
IX.195,196 Lesions of the very proximal CCAs are difficult
or impossible to expose without extending the incision into
the chest. This must be considered when evaluating the
morbidity of the procedure.
b. Lesion characteristics. Lesion-specific characteristics
are thought to increase the risk of cerebral vascular events
after CAS66,197 and include a “soft” lipid-rich plaque identified on noninvasive imaging, extensive (15 mm or more)
disease, a preocclusive lesion, and circumferential heavy
calcification. A recent publication using multivariate logistic regression analysis of a large patient cohort demonstrated increased periprocedural stroke risk (odds ratios,
2.5-5.6) among patients with lesions ⬎15 mm, excessive
calcification, and ulceration.197 An earlier study has shown
a periprocedural stroke risk (odds ratio, 7.1) among patients with a lipid-rich plaque treated with CAS.66
The CAS procedure requires manipulation of a wire
and a self-expanding stent through the carotid lesion. Unstable plaque increases the risk of embolization during
placement of the wire or stent across the carotid lesion. This
can be reduced, but not eliminated, by using flow-reversal
embolic protection rather than distal filter protection.185
Long segment lesions may require the placement of multiple stents, and this situation and preocclusive stenoses are
both associated with a higher risk of acute or late stent
occlusion. Heavy circumferential calcification makes lesion
dilation more difficult and also increases the risk of embolization with CAS. There are no lesion specific characteristics that increase the risk of CEA.
c. Other anatomic considerations. Several anatomic
situations may increase the difficulty of CEA. These
include reoperation after prior CEA, existence of a cervical stoma, history of neck radiotherapy with resultant