
morbidity, no study examined the role of surgical or
endovascular therapies on C2 patients to prevent longitudinal progression to CVI. The role of treatment in preventing such progression remains undeﬁned.
5.2.2. Interventions to treat varicose veins can be performed in an ofﬁce-based setting, surgery center, or

hospital operating room, at the discretion of the physician, who is specialized in vein care. Better patient
experience and lower cost was reported for procedures performed in an ofﬁce-based setting.
Consensus statement.
Rationale. In the United States, most venous disease
practitioners perform venous procedures, including thermal or nonthermal endovenous ablation, miniphlebectomy and sclerotherapy in an ofﬁce-based setting. A
comparison with the historical method of providing such
interventions in the hospital operating room or in surgical centers helps guide providers.
Evidence. Endovenous procedures are safe and effective with high patient satisfaction when performed in
an ofﬁce-based setting (Table XI). Studies have shown
high technical success for venous interventions in the
ofﬁce-based setting, which is on par with the operating
room setting.135,137,138 Venous procedures in the ofﬁcebased setting have a low overall complication rate,
comparable with most published series that evaluated
similar interventions in the operating room.135,138,133 Jain
et al found that 99% of patients surveyed indicated they
would come back to the ofﬁce for additional procedures.133 Perkowski et al treated 165 patients in an outpatient ofﬁce setting with EVLA of either the GSV, SSV, or
accessory saphenous veins. No DVT or nerve injury were
reported and 97% of patients were mostly or very satisﬁed with their treatment results.134 In a retrospective
study of 429 ofﬁce based stand-alone RFA procedures,

24

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

Table XI. Outcome of interventions performed in outpatient ofﬁce-based settings
First author,
year
133

Jain 2013

Patients/Limbs
78