Volume 7, Number 1

The efﬁcacy of sclerotherapy and side effects were
assessed. On days 14 and 28, clinical and duplex ultrasound assessments were performed by independent
experts; the patients also completed a quality of life
questionnaire and reported satisfaction scores. The study
found no difference between compression and control
groups in comparing treatment efﬁcacy, side effects,
satisfaction scores, symptoms, and quality of life scores.
The authors recommended further studies to establish
the role of compression in sclerotherapy and to evaluate
other compression strategies.
Thomasset et al49 designed a prospectively collective
database of ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy.
They evaluated 126 patients who had undergone
targeted ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy of the
GSV (n ¼ 75), the small saphenous vein (n ¼ 13), and
the anterior accessary saphenous vein (n ¼ 9). They had
a mean follow-up of 3 months and used duplex ultrasound scans for evaluation of complete occlusion of
the target vessel. The only factor associated with vessel
outcome was compliance of postprocedure compression therapy. The only factor associated with complications after foam sclerotherapy was female sex. Their
data suggested that compliance with postprocedure
compression therapy and sex were important factors in
successful outcome. Patients were treated with foam
pads that were applied over the treated vein, and then
class II thigh-length graduated compression stockings
with a waist extension were applied over the foam
pads after the procedure. Foam pads were worn for
1 week, and stockings were then worn for a total of
6 weeks.
It is appropriate to assume that compression after
sclerotherapy maximizes venous wall apposition and
contact with the intraluminal sclerosant, thereby allowing more effective panendothelial destruction and
endosclerosis. Existing data suggest that compression
after sclerotherapy improves the clinical disappearance
of superﬁcial veins and reduces pigmentation and
bruising. The preponderance of evidence suggests that
compression should be considered an integral part of
management after sclerotherapy. However, despite
several consensus statements, no conclusion can been
reached on the basis of current data as to the best
method, dose, or duration of compression that achieves
optimal results