 patients; (2) is CEA recommended over transfemoral CAS for low
surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis of >50%; (3) the timing of carotid intervention for patients
presenting with acute stroke; (4) screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic patients; and (5) the optimal
sequence of intervention for patients with combined carotid and coronary artery disease.
A separate implementation document will address other important clinical issues in extracranial cerebrovascular
disease. Recommendations are made using the GRADE (grades of recommendation assessment, development, and
evaluation) approach, as was used for other Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines. The committee recommends CEA
as the ﬁrst-line treatment for symptomatic low-risk surgical patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic
patients with stenosis of 70% to 99%. The perioperative risk of stroke and death in asymptomatic patients must be <3%
to ensure beneﬁt for the patient. In patients with recent stable stroke (modiﬁed Rankin scale score, 0-2), carotid
revascularization is considered appropriate for symptomatic patients with >50% stenosis and should be performed as
soon as the patient is neurologically stable after 48 hours but deﬁnitely <14 days after symptom onset. In the general
population, screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis in patients without cerebrovascular symptoms
or signiﬁcant risk factors for carotid artery disease is not recommended. In selected asymptomatic patients with an
increased risk of carotid stenosis, we suggest screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis as long as the
patients would potentially be ﬁt for and willing to consider carotid intervention if signiﬁcant stenosis is discovered. For
patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis of 50% to 99%, who require both CEA and coronary artery bypass grafting,
we suggest CEA before, or concomitant with, coronary artery bypass grafting to potentially reduce the risk of stroke
and stroke/death. The sequencing of the intervention depends on the clinical presentation and institutional
experience. (J Vasc Surg 202