 on duplex scanning, and 26% of patients had
developed new IC #1 year after diagnosis.60 It is also
important to note that some asymptomatic PAD patients,
particularly those with diabetes, may develop CLI without
an antecedent history of claudication. The incremental
value and frequency of repeat ABI testing in asymptomatic
PAD is not established but may be useful in higher-risk
patients (eg, diabetic patients) or those with a lower
baseline ABI. Regardless of hemodynamic or imaging
ﬁndings, invasive treatments for PAD are only indicated for
those with symptoms, with few exceptions noted below
(eg, intervention for failing bypass graft or to support delivery of an indicated cardiovascular implant).

Recommendations: Management of asymptomatic disease

3.1.
3.2.
3.3.

We recommend multidisciplinary comprehensive smoking cessation interventions for patients
with asymptomatic PAD who use tobacco (repeatedly until tobacco use has stopped).
We recommend providing education about the signs and symptoms of PAD progression to
asymptomatic patients with PAD.
We recommend against invasive treatments for PAD in the absence of symptoms, regardless of
hemodynamic measures or imaging ﬁndings demonstrating PAD.

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

A

1

Ungraded

1

B

PAD, Peripheral arterial disease.
Summary of evidence: Management of asymptomatic disease

Clinical question
The effect of smoking cessation in
patients with asymptomatic PAD
Beneﬁt for serial ABI testing
(surveillance) in patients with
asymptomatic PAD
PAD, Peripheral arterial disease.

Data source

Finding

Observational studies in various
settings applicable to patients
with asymptomatic PAD
Sparse data

Smoking cessation reduces overall
mortality and morbidity in smokers
in general
No data on beneﬁts and harms of
surveillance

Quality of
evidence
A

C

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

4. NONINTERVENTIONAL MANAGEMENT OF
THE PATIENT WITH IC
As noted, IC is the most common clinical manifestation of PAD. Patients with IC may exhibit a wide range
of symptom severity and associated effect on daily function.
Moreover, concomitant conditions, such as cardiopulmonary disease, arthritis, spine disease, and obesity, can markedly limit exercise capacity in a synergistic fashion.
Therefore,