 endovascular approach, unless it was
clearly inferior in terms of its effect on these outcomes.
This is consistent with the patient values derived from
other similar contexts in vascular surgery, such as abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs).51 Interviews with patients
with small AAAs have demonstrated that they cared the
most about postoperative morbidity and mortality
compared with the need for surveillance and the risk of
long-term problems with endovascular repair.51 In terms
of cost, an evaluation of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services Inpatient claims (2005-2007) suggested that the medical and surgical supply charges for
endovascular repair of PAAs ($15,029) are considerably
greater than those for open surgery ($3188). However,
open repair overall costs more than the endovascular
approach ($43,180 vs $35,540, respectively).35 In contrast, a
decision analysis suggested that traditional open repair
with great saphenous vein (GSV) bypass might be the
preferred treatment for 65-year-old asymptomatic patients with PAAs when all outcomes are considered.52 The
guidelines committee did not conduct a formal costeffectiveness analysis, and cost was not considered a
major factor in making the recommendations. Endovascular and open approaches were both considered
acceptable by patients and feasible in most settings if
surgical expertise is available.
Evidence synthesis. The expert panel commissioned a
systematic review of the MEDLINE, Embase, and
Cochrane databases and Scopus that focused on evaluating two seminal research questions that relate to the
management of PAAs. The ﬁrst question evaluated the
natural history of PAAs in an attempt to assess the timing

116S

Farber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

of intervention. The second question appraised and
compared the efﬁcacy of OPAR and EPAR. The Mayo
Clinic Evidence-Based Practice Center conducted the
reviews. The search strategy identiﬁed 2191 references, of
which 33 original studies and 4 systematic reviews were
included. One systematic review of 13 studies and two
additional original studies (836 PAAs) had evaluated the