 renal insufﬁciency, but it may be contraindicated
for evaluation of the mesenteric vessels in patients with
CMI owing to its potential to cause bowel infarction,
particularly in the case of selective injections.80
Implementation considerations
The diagnosis, treatment, and overall management of
patients with CMI is well-known to most vascular care
providers. Indeed, the diagnostic workup has usually
been completed by the primary care provider and/or
gastroenterologist at the time of referral. The excessive
diagnostic delays from onset of symptoms to deﬁnitive
diagnosis and referral for revascularization are due to
the low prevalence of the disease, the unfamiliarity of
most primary care providers, and the extensive differential diagnosis. Accordingly, it is incumbent upon vascular
care providers to help educate primary care providers to
reduce the diagnostic delay and expedite treatment. CT
scans are universally available and provide the best
chance for early diagnosis in the patient with abdominal
pain and weight loss. Appreciation of the presence of
MAOD in this setting and the potential for CMI may expedite deﬁnitive care.
Future research
Development of reporting standards for patients with
CMI
d Development of a standard diagnostic algorithm for
CMI
d Development of a functional test for CMI
d

Indications for treatment
Recommendations.
1. We recommend revascularization in patients with
CMI to reverse their presenting symptoms (ie, weight
loss, food fear, diarrhea, postprandial pain) and
improve their overall quality of life. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A
(High)
2. We recommend that total parenteral nutrition is not
an acceptable alternative to revascularization for patients with CMI owing to the risk of clinical deterioration,
bowel
infarction
and
catheter-related
complications. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)

96S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

3. We suggest that the SMA is the primary target for
revascularization. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We suggest that the celiac axis and IMA are secondary
targets for