 surgery residency. It is the position of the SVS
that exposure to the ﬁeld of vascular surgery during
these other residencies is not sufﬁcient to acquire the
experience and judgment necessary for the independent
practice of vascular surgery.
After initial board certiﬁcation is achieved in vascular
surgery, the ABS requires physician participation in a
program for MOC, which continuously measures the
six core competencies deﬁned by the ACGME to
enhance patient care and to improve outcomes. A
four-part framework is used for MOC, including professional standing, lifelong learning, cognitive expertise, and performance in practice. Key elements of
the MOC process, although subject to change,
currently include a minimum of 90 hours of category
1 credits during a 3-year cycle (at least 60 of the 90
credit
hours
should
include
self-assessment),

1340

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Calligaro et al

May 2018

successful completion of a written examination at 10year intervals, and participation in a surgical outcomes database. Failure to maintain these requirements for MOC will result in loss of board
certiﬁcation (www.absurgery.org).

Table I. Residency Review Committee minimum criteria
for endovascular and open vascular surgery cases
Category

Minimum required No.

Endovascular abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair (EVAR)

20

Endovascular therapeutic
procedures

80

TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR VASCULAR
SURGERY TRAINEES

Endovascular diagnostic procedures

100

Complex

10

The recommendations for training requirements take into
account the comprehensive specialized training in vascular
surgery and include nonoperative medical management,
endovascular interventions, open surgical treatment, and
interpretation of noninvasive vascular laboratory studies.

Peripheral

45

Cerebrovascular

25

Abdominal

30

Medical Management Requirements. Training in medical management of peripheral vascular disease is an integral part of vascular surgery training. Vascular trainees
should have a thorough understanding of vascular disease risk factor modiﬁcation. The care of the vascular patient occurs in a continuum, and the trainee is expected
to be able to evaluate these patients preoperatively, in
the perioperative period including critical care management in the intensive care unit