let reactivity is not justifiable. The pharmacologic
response to clopidogrel also demonstrates significant interindividual variability.
Patients with reduced platelet inhibition in response to
clopidogrel appear to be at increased risk for cardiovascular
events. This resistance may result from reduced bioavailability, polymorphisms of cytochrome P450, additional
genetic variants, or increased platelet turnover.147 Prasugrel is an alternate platelet-inhibiting pharmacologic agent
of the same class as clopidogrel that does not have these
limitations. It has been approved for use in acute coronary
syndromes,148 but no data are available on its use for stroke
prevention.
As in the case of aspirin resistance, current evidence
does not suggest the routine use of platelet function or
genetic testing for clopidogrel resistance. In the absence of
randomized trial data, the general approach to patients
developing clinical events while taking aspirin or clopidogrel has been to confirm compliance and increase the
dosage, followed by the addition or substitution of another
antiplatelet agent.149 However, data in this area are insufficient to allow clear recommendations.
F. Anticoagulant therapy

e12 Ricotta et al

be continued for 1 month after the procedure, and aspirin
should be continued indefinitely.
● Recommendations for medical management of
patients with carotid atherosclerosis
1. In patients with carotid artery stenosis, treatment of
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and efforts at
smoking cessation are recommended to reduce overall
cardiovascular risk and risk of stroke regardless of
whether intervention is planned. Targets are those defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program
guidelines (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A).
2. Aggressive treatment of hypertension in the setting of
acute stroke is not recommended; however, treatment of
hypertension after this period has passed is associated
with reduced risk of subsequent stroke. The target parameters are not well defined (GRADE 1, Level of
Evidence C).
3. Treatment of diabetes with the goal of tight glucose
control has not been shown to reduce stroke risk or
decrease complication rates after CEA and is not recommended for these purposes (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence A).
4. Anticoagulation