. Awake ﬁberoptic endotracheal intubation may be required to safely intubate
the patient in the presence of a compressed airway.
Rarely, emergency cricothyroidotomy may be required.
Once the airway has been secured, reexploration
should proceed in an organized fashion with assessment and appropriate surgical treatment of any hemorrhage sources.
Summary and recommendations for the management of wound hematoma after CEA. Avoidance of
wound hematoma is best accomplished using meticulous surgical technique and appropriate methods of
achieving hemostasis.
1. Protamine should be considered to reverse heparinization; decisions on its use may depend on how
much heparin was administered, clinical examination
of the wound for appropriate hemostasis, and other
factors including the use of antiplatelet medications.
2. Small, asymptomatic hematomas in the perioperative
period may be safely observed.
3. Symptomatic or enlarging hematomas should undergo operative reexploration and treatment to avoid
airway compromise.
4. Patients with large hematomas in respiratory distress
may require reopening of the incision at the bedside
to evacuate the hematoma and prevent respiratory
arrest.
5. Intubation in the setting of a large neck hematoma
may require awake ﬁberoptic intubation or other
techniques to manage airway compromise.
Late complications after CEA
Prosthetic patch infection. Infectious complications
are extremely rare after CEA. The reported risk of wound
infection or cellulitis ranges from 0.09% to 0.15%.417

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

69S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Prosthetic patch infection is even rarer, but true incidence is unknown. In a systematic review, 77 cases of
graft infection were reported.449 There are reported associations between postoperative wound hematoma
and early prosthetic patch infections.449 In one series,
80% of patients who presented with prosthetic patch
infection within 9 weeks of surgery had documented
wound complications in the perioperative period.450
Other patient-related factors that may increase risk of
patch infection include immunosuppression, and poor
general or dental hygiene. Patch infection has been reported after