 minimum numbers
for privileges but instead be reviewed with the goal being
to demonstrate competent decision-making.
The SVS also endorses Ongoing Professional Practice
Evaluation and Focused Professional Practice Evaluation
processes as directed by The Joint Commission for
newly credentialed physicians, newly credentialed
procedures, and physician probationary periods (www.
jointcommission.org). Ongoing Professional Practice
Evaluation can be used as a performance enhancement

tool to avoid adverse outcomes. Quality measures
selected by the hospital’s credentialing committee
within the ﬁeld of vascular surgery should be established
and met during a predetermined time period immediately after initial appointment of a vascular surgeon or
other endovascular specialist. These quality indicators,
which can mirror ongoing VQI data collection, may be
compared with peer or benchmark data and used to
validate competence within the ﬁeld and to determine
the maintenance or alteration of privileges. More important, this valuable measure can allow early identiﬁcation
of negative trends and lead to timely proactive education, training, or collegial intervention. Similarly, Focused
Professional Practice Evaluation can be instituted for
vascular surgeons requiring additional review during probationary periods or for newly credentialed procedures.
Meaningful quality measures should be established for
all new procedures based on review of available data in
the literature and input from a multidisciplinary group
of peers. Prospective review of these indicators will
ensure safe and proﬁcient implementation of the new
procedure for each qualifying vascular surgeon or endovascular interventionalist.
Mechanisms of audit, morbidity and mortality review,
and corrective actions in each hospital fall under the purview of a peer review committee, credentialing committee, or designated subcommittee with input from a
multidisciplinary quality assurance committee.
In regard to credentialing for interpretation of noninvasive vascular laboratory studies, whether for new privileges or for renewal of privileges, RPVI credentialing
from the APCA should be construed as having fulﬁlled
the requirements for vascular laboratory credentialing if
the physicians have also demonstrated a commitment
to treating vascular disorders. The APCA requires a speciﬁc number of cases and experience before allowing

1344

Calligaro et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
May 2018

physicians to take the examination (see earlier section,
Training Requirements for Vascular Surgery Trainees).
V