 patients with acute ICA occlusion.475,477,483 Several factors may inﬂuence IV tPA treatment outcomes among patients with ICA occlusion.
First, because the rate of ﬁbrinolysis depends on the pressure gradient to which the clot is exposed, effective delivery and distribution of thrombolytic drug into the clot is
needed to accelerate ﬁbrinolysis.484 Second, the presence of an ipsilateral MCA occlusion along with the ICA
occlusion, is generally caused by artery-to-artery embolism, with a platelet-rich, lytic-resistant clot proceeding
from the carotid plaque. These clots have a poorer propensity for lysis with tPA compared with ﬁbrin-rich
clots.485 Third, because of the high clot burden and
poor collateral circulation, functional ICA occlusions
show poor response to IV thrombolysis.486
With advances in stent retrievers, recanalization rates in
patients with ICA occlusion are increasing. Optimal
endovascular strategies for patients with acute carotid
occlusion are being elucidated. Despite the complex
classiﬁcation of occlusion sites, different underlying etiologies, huge clot burden and high risk of ICH, endovascular treatment of acute ICA occlusion seems to be
effective and safe.487 However, the time to treatment
should be as short as possible.
A high revascularization rate has been reported with
angioplasty and stenting (endovascular treatment) for
acute carotid occlusions. Sugg et al488 reported a 64%
immediate recanalization risk with endovascular treatment in patients with ICA occlusion treated within
3 hours of onset of stroke. The most challenging step involves catheterization of the lumen of the total occluded
artery. In a large case series involving stenting of the proximal ICA followed by thrombectomy, Cohen et al reported successful reperfusion in 79% of patients. These
data supported use of this approach because most acute
occlusion lesions are due to atherosclerotic lesions with
fresh thrombus.489
Summary and recommendations.
1. Intravenous thrombolysis should be administered as
ﬁrst-line treatment in sympt