 Initiative.

tomography angiography and magnetic resonance angiography can be used to identify the proximal and distal
extent of the PAA, assess arterial inﬂow and outﬂow, and
to plan the repair. Catheter-directed digital subtraction
angiography has mainly been used for ALI when thrombolytic therapy is needed, when evaluating for concurrent
endovascular repair, or to better assess a distal arterial
target for open repair using lower extremity bypass.
Although very few PAA-speciﬁc studies have been reported on the optimal medical management, given
that PAAs and atherosclerotic occlusive disease often
occur together, the risk modiﬁcation strategies and
guidelines established for asymptomatic PAD or aortic

aneurysmal disease are often followed for patients with
PAAs.26,27 Thus, patients with a PAA who smoke should
be counseled to cease smoking and be medically
treated to control hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes, as part of an atherosclerotic factor control strategy.
Although statins and antiplatelet agents may be indicated for that purpose, they have not been deﬁnitively
shown to affect the natural history of PAAs. The only
study that evaluated the effect of medication (eg, statins,
anticoagulant agents, b-blockers, and antiarrhythmic
agents) on PAA growth found no correlation, although
the sample size was too small for meaningful
conclusions.16

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

115S

Volume 75, Number 1S

When surgical treatment of a PAA is indicated, both
open and endovascular approaches can be used. Endovascular PAA repair (EPAR) is a less invasive procedure in
which a stent-graft is deployed across the PAA. In open
PAA repair (OPAR), if the medial approach is used, the
aneurysm should be bypassed with proximal and distal
ligation of the aneurysm sac. Sac obliteration is desirable
but can be technically difﬁcult to complete. If the posterior approach is used, bypass and aneurysmorrhaphy
should be performed. In patients with very large PAAs
and compressive symptoms, the posterior approach is advantageous because