graded Best Practice Statement was
formulated with a rationale explaining how the statement

was arrived at and how GRADE criteria for developing such
a statement were considered, as advised in a recent publication of the GRADE group on this topic.15 According to
GRADE, such recommendations should be formulated as
actionable statements when they are deemed necessary
for practice and when the desirable effects of an intervention clearly outweigh its undesirable effects. Although in
these cases direct evidence is lacking, they should be supported by indirect evidence. For the clinical question on
the use of current medical therapies to reduce cardiovascular risk or lower limb events in people with diabetes and
symptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD), the authors
did not perform a systematic review or develop graded recommendations, as recent high quality guidelines on these
topics already exist.16e23 However, to give the reader a complete overview a summary of these existing guidelines was
created, where relevant for the clinical question, and adapted to the person with diabetes mellitus and symptomatic
PAD. These recommendations were also formulated as
Best Practice Statements. It is acknowledged that for
certain recommendations high quality evidence exists, as
summarised in other guidelines of organisations such as
ESVS, SVS and American Diabetes Association, but for
others there is only lesser quality evidence. In order not to
repeat all these evidence based guidelines already developed by other relevant organisations, ungraded Best Practice Statements were made, with references provided to
the relevant guidelines. Finally, the Writing Committee
considered topics for future research and voted to focus
on ﬁve key topics, which are discussed at the end of the
guideline.
The recommendations and corresponding rationales
were reviewed by the same international external experts and committees responsible for guideline development of the three aforementioned societies. Further
details are provided in the IWGDF guidelines methodology document.1 The summary of judgements tables that
were the basis for formulating each recommendation
and Best Practice Statement, can be found in the
Supplementary material for this article. These systematic
reviews provide the evidence for the graded recommendations made in this guideline.

TARGET POPULATION AND TARGET AUDIENCE
Poorly healing foot ulcers or gangrene in people with diabetes mellitus are frequently caused by several factors
acting in concert. The primary target population of this
guideline is people with diabetes mellitus with a foot ulcer
or gangrene on any portion of the foot (with