 unfractionated heparin, preferably at 80
to 100 U/kg of dose. The activated clotting time should be
followed not to exceed 300 seconds to prevent risk of
hemorrhagic stroke secondary to reperfusion after CAS.425
Acute stent thrombosis. This complication is an acute
emergency with an increased risk of embolic stroke, and
it can be due to carotid artery recoiling, stent misplacement, poor sizing or massive plaque protrusion through
stent struts. Treatment of acute stent thrombosis usually
involves conversion to CEA. However, because many of
these patients are at high risk for CEA, endovascular
intervention with catheter-based thrombolysis and
thrombectomy may be considered. This allows use of
cerebral angiography to evaluate distal embolization as
well as the use of stent retrieval thrombectomy.
Carotid artery dissection
Dissection can be largely avoided with meticulous
techniques. This complication should be identiﬁed on
the completion angiogram. If the dissection occurs
distally and is ﬂow limiting, a second stent can be
placed in the true lumen overlapping with the initial

stent. In CCA dissection after TCAR, the same stent or
an additional stent can be extended as proximal as
possible to the tip of the sheath. Conversion to CEA
is rarely needed. Engaging the ECA when possible, dilatation of the anterior wall of CCA with a 9F dilator as
well as maintaining the 0.035 wire access, reduce risk
of dissection during insertion of the arterial sheath during TCAR.
Cerebral hyperperfusion
This complication is rare, occurring in 1% to 2% of patients undergoing CAS. Patients typically present with
headache. Diagnosis can be made on CT imaging
revealing ipsilateral cerebral edema without any evidence of stroke. Treatment is largely supportive, focusing
on controlling blood pressure and maintaining adequate
cerebral perfusion. Additional details concerning management of hyperperfusion syndrome are discussed in
other sections of these guidelines.
Summary and recommendations for treatment of
stroke after CAS.
Acute CAS complication.
1. Stroke owing to MCA occlusion