ograms
predicting near normalization of the postoperative ABI
resulted in excellent late outcomes and patient satisfaction
in 82% of patients meeting these criteria.
The popliteal artery is the most common outﬂow vessel
when an infrainguinal bypass is performed for claudication,
usually above the knee. However, properly selected patients without a suitable popliteal artery target may also
beneﬁt from bypass. In a retrospective study of 57
femoral-tibial bypasses performed during a 16-year period
for IC, graft patency rates were better than tibial bypass
for limb salvage and equivalent to those achieved with FP
bypass graft for claudication.232 Vein conduit, 70% of
which were saphenous vein, was used in all cases. Interviewed patients reported improved walking distance,
reduced claudication, and a high degree of satisfaction.

Recommendations: Intervention for femoropopliteal occlusive disease (FPOD) in intermittent claudication (IC)
Level of
Grade evidence
5.16. We recommend endovascular procedures over open surgery for focal occlusive disease of the SFA
artery not involving the origin at the femoral bifurcation.
5.17. For focal lesions (<5 cm) in the SFA that have unsatisfactory technical results with balloon
angioplasty, we suggest selective stenting.
5.18. For intermediate-length lesions (5-15 cm) in the SFA, we recommend the adjunctive use of selfexpanding nitinol stents (with or without paclitaxel) to improve the midterm patency of
angioplasty.
5.19. We suggest the use of preoperative ultrasound vein mapping to establish the availability and quality
of autogenous vein conduit in patients being considered for infrainguinal bypass for the treatment
of IC.
5.20. We recommend against EVT of isolated infrapopliteal disease for IC because this treatment is of
unproven beneﬁt and possibly harmful.
5.21. We recommend surgical bypass as an initial revascularization strategy for patients with diffuse FP
disease, small caliber (<5 mm), or extensive calciﬁcation of the SFA, if they have favorable
anatomy for bypass (popliteal artery target, good runoff)