 CI, 1.44-1.66; P <
.001)
Noted differences were clinically irrelevant, as overall risk of cardiac adverse
events were low.
Approach to choosing anesthesia should
be based on patient risk factors, preference and team experience.

CI, Conﬁdence interval; MI, myocardial infarction; OR, odds ratio; RCT, randomized controlled trial; VQI, Vascular Quality Initiative.

CEA TECHNICAL CONSIDERATIONS
Local vs general anesthesia
An advantage of performing CEA on awake patients
under local/regional anesthesia is the ability to perform
an accurate neurologic assessment during the operation
and in the immediate postoperative period. Local/
regional anesthesia also attenuates the hemodynamic
swings both during induction of general anesthesia
and upon awakening. It has been postulated that local
anesthesia also has the beneﬁt of increasing systemic
blood pressure that may occur after carotid clamping,222
helping to maintain cerebral perfusion. However, opponents of CEA under local anesthesia highlight that pain

or anxiety during the procedure may increase stress,
potentially resulting in increased risk of perioperative
MI. However, this stress can be minimized by premedication and intraoperative sedation/analgesia. The patient’s
heightened stress level may also impact the performance of some surgeons. In addition, the ability to train
fellows or residents in performing CEA may also be negatively impacted by use of local/regional anesthesia. This
approach may also result in needle damage to important structures such as the vertebral artery during deep
cervical plexus block, phrenic nerve block, or may result
in intravascular injection with associated hematoma.223
Therefore, many clinics use only superﬁcial cervical
plexus block for CEA.224 It has also been suggested that

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

47S

Volume 75, Number 1S

general anesthetics decrease the cerebral metabolic rate
and may therefore have a neuroprotective effect in the
presence of cerebral ischemia.225
Over the past several decades, a number of publications have shown conﬂicting results about anesthesia,
some favoring general anesthesia, while others favor
local anesthesia. Halm et al226