oses often occur centrally.113 A retrospective review
by Sofocleous et al114 found 48 complications occurred
in 579 treated thrombosed prosthetic hemodialysis accesses. Their overall technical success rate was 81%, and
primary and secondary patency rate at 6 months were 36%
and 67%, respectively. They also found that most complications encountered during percutaneous thrombolysis or
surgical thrombectomy of thrombosed prosthetic access
could be treated at the same sitting, allowing the same
access to be used for hemodialysis.114 Percutaneous excimer laser-facilitated thrombus vaporization is also found to
be safe and effective for recanalization of acute and subacute thrombotic occlusions of hemodialysis shunts.115
1. Early thrombosis. Early failure occurs for many of the
same reasons described above as causing nonfunctionality.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

In a way, early thrombosis represents the more extreme
form of failure to mature, and mechanistically, the same
underlying problems need to be evaluated in addition to
performing thrombectomy of the conduit, either by endovascular or open surgical means. Insufficient arterial inflow,
poor venous outflow, and anastomotic stenosis are the
most common reasons for early access thrombosis. Additional factors may include surgical technical errors, intrinsic
coagulation state, drops in systemic blood pressure, and
poor cardiac output.
Usually, the surgeon has some idea from the initial
procedure about what might be the most likely cause of
early access failure. Depending on what is thought to be the
most likely reason for access failure, surgical re-exploration
of the access may or may not be worthwhile. For example,
a small vein that failed to dilate with a gentle intraoperative
infusion of heparinized solution or a diseased artery with
poor inflow may not be worth re-exploration. It may make
more sense to evaluate alternative sites with a view toward
placing a new access. On the other hand, a possible kink in
the vein graft or compression within the tunnel would
require prompt urgent exploration.
Strategies for revisions can range from a simple throm