, late stent graft collapse, infection,
and endograft disruption can occur,214 and late conversion to open repair occurs at an average of 5 years and
up to 98 months after initial implantation, suggesting
that patients undergoing TEVAR should be observed
for life.101,215

Recommendation 36: We recommend contrastenhanced CT scanning at 1 month and 12 months after
TEVAR and then yearly for life, with consideration of
more frequent imaging if an endoleak or other abnormality of concern is detected at 1 month. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Implementation remarks about surveillance.
1. In cases in which the 1-month CT scan demonstrates
morphologic endograft concerns (eg, “bird beaking,”
infolding of endograft), endoleaks, or evidence of sac
growth and in high-risk patients (eg, those treated
for PAU or ruptured aortic aneurysms), repeated CTA
with arterial and delayed phase imaging is recommended within 6 months.
2. In cases at low risk for expansion, such as those with a
shrinking aneurysm sac and >3 years of stability, noncontrast-enhanced CT of the chest may be used to
follow aneurysm sac size and component stability.
3. We can recommend neither eliminating TEVAR surveillance nor extending it further than annually,
given the lack of long-term evidence of safety and
because of evidence of aneurysm growth and new
endoleaks reported, despite a previously sealed
aneurysm.

SPECIAL TAA CONSIDERATIONS
Guidelines for hospital privileges have been established
for TEVAR by the SVS.216 Calligaro et al217 suggested that
the requirements for TEVAR include full basic privileges
with either 10 TEVARs within the last 2 years or less
than this minimum for surgeons with a robust EVAR
experience, deﬁned as 25 EVARs with 12 as the primary
operator. Trainees should also be able to manage complex aortic patients as well as to perform adjunctive procedures, including iliac conduits and carotid-subclavian
bypass grafting.
The relationship between volume and outcomes has
been explored for TEVAR,