 stroke and late
restenosis in large single-center reports.179
A number of investigations have studied the relationship of operative volume and specialty training with outcome. Although data suggest that there is some relationship between operative volume and outcome, the effect
appears less than with other procedures.180 In a large study
of Medicare populations in Maryland and California, surgeons who perform 10 to 15 CEAs per year have better
results than those who perform ⬍5 procedures annually,
but there was no added benefit to performing more than
this relatively low threshold. There has been no consistent
relationship between surgical specialty and outcome, and
any effect seen is likely related to volume rather than
specialty designation.8,180,181
B. Carotid artery stenting
The periprocedural management of the CAS patient
has been discussed in a previous section. Periprocedural
antiplatelet therapy is mandatory, and appropriate attention to access vessels and the status of the aortic arch is
required for optimal results. The technical conduct of the
CAS involves access of the target vessel, crossing the target
lesion, and stent deployment. Technical issues related to
carotid stenting include achieving a stable platform for the
procedure, use of embolic protection devices, stent dilation
before deployment, stent selection, and postdeployment
dilation.
Stable sheath access in the proximal CCA is required.
This depends on appropriate patient selection, as described
above. Once a stable platform is obtained, a decision must
be made about use of a cerebral protection device. In
general, cerebral protection device deployment has been
suggested to reduce the incidence of distal embolization
and, potentially, the risk of stroke.182,183 Although this
position is not supported by robust data, it has been generally accepted by the medical community, and use of an
embolic protection device has been required by Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services to qualify for reimbursement.
Several embolic protection devices are available, and
selection depends on lesion characteristics and anatomic
considerations. Options include proximal or distal occlusion devices designed to interrupt forward flow during the
procedure and filter devices placed distal to the lesion
designed to trap debris released during the procedure.
Distal occlusion devices have the advantage of a smaller
d