 appropriate decision. There have
been no studies supporting either CEA or CAS for this
cohort of patients.16
A. Assessing the risk associated with intervention
CEA and CAS are each associated with specific clinical
scenarios that increase their respective risks. This section
provides information to identify conditions that pose an
increased risk for CAS or CEA and thereby help select the
most appropriate therapy. When the risk of intervention is
sufficiently increased due to the presence of one or more of
these factors, medical therapy may be more appropriate
than CEA or CAS.
In the initial CAS trials, a series of anatomic and
physiologic criteria were developed by a consensus panel
in an attempt to identify “high-risk” CEA patients who
might be expected to benefit from CAS.192 Although
these criteria were used to enroll patients in CAS trials
and registries, their ability to define “high risk” was
never validated in a prospective manner. In fact, some
have suggested that CEA could be safely performed in
most of these patients.193,194 As CAS experience matured, certain conditions have been shown to be associated with increased complications after CAS. Risk stratification can generally be divided into two categories:
anatomic (including the lesion) characteristics and physiologic characteristics.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

1. Anatomic and lesion characteristics.
a. Lesion location. CEA provides excellent access to
the cervical carotid artery, but lesions that extend outside
this zone can be difficult to treat surgically. Lesions at or
above the level of the C2 cervical vertebra or below the
clavicle are generally more difficult to expose surgically for
CEA without increasing the morbidity of the operation.
Lesions of the distal cervical carotid artery can be exposed
by division of the digastric muscle and subluxation or
division of the mandible, as required.195,196 Although
rarely required, these high carotid exposures may be associated with increased difficulty in directly visualizing the
end point of the endarterectomy and with increased incidence of cranial nerve injury, particularly cranial nerve
IX.195,196 Lesions of the very proximal CCAs are difficult
or