 lesions of the CFA are generally
treated with surgical endarterectomy and patch angioplasty,
except in patients with signiﬁcant comorbidities or hostile

groins precluding surgical treatment. Combined open and
endovascular hybrid procedures involving CFA endarterectomy and then angioplasty of either proximal iliac artery lesions (see above) or distal SFA lesions been shown to be
effective for the management of claudication.206,207 EVT
of the CFA for claudication is an alternative treatment to
open surgery for selected patients with hostile groins or multiple previous vascular procedures.164,208 Primary intervention using balloon angioplasty and self-expanding stent
placement has been reported; however, placement of stents
within the CFA may be complicated by plaque shifting into
the origin of the profunda femoral artery. Moreover, late
failure resulting in CFA occlusion makes subsequent open
or endovascular interventions more complicated. Stent fracture or vessel injury due to groin ﬂexion point is an additional concern. Atherectomy has been reported as an
alternative treatment option that obviates some of these
problems.209 In general, endovascular approaches to the
CFA artery are not well proven, and disease in this artery
is preferably treated surgically.
IC rarely results from isolated profunda femoral disease
unless there is associated CFA or SFA disease. Endovascular intervention on the profunda femoral artery for claudication symptoms is of unproven value and may carry
substantial risk to this most important source of collateral
ﬂow in the limb. The multiple branch points within the
profunda femoral artery make angioplasty and stenting
complicated. Similar to the common femoral bifurcation,
atherosclerotic plaque near the branch points can shift plaque during angioplasty and occlude one of the branch vessels if not adequately protected.
The SFA is the most common site of atherosclerotic
occlusive disease resulting in claudication. The severity
of symptoms from occlusive disease in the SFA varies
considerably, based on the extent of collateralization
from the profunda femoral artery to the geniculate collateral arteries at the popliteal artery. After failure of an exercise program and optimization of medical therapy,
endovascular intervention