)

1104

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

Continued.
Chapter

Recommendation

Grade

Certainty of
evidence

Conditional

Moderate

17. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene who has an adequate single segment
saphenous vein in whom infrainguinal revascularisation is
indicated and who is suitable for either approach, consider bypass
in preference to endovascular therapy.
Best Practice Statement

18. A person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease (PAD), and a foot ulcer or gangrene, should be treated in a centre with expertise in, or
rapid access to, endovascular and surgical bypass revascularisation.
In this setting, consider making treatment decisions based on the
risk to and preference of the individual, limb threat severity,
anatomical distribution of PAD, and the availability of autogenous
vein.
Best Practice Statement

19. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot ulcer
or gangrene, revascularisation procedures should aim to restore in
line blood ﬂow to at least one of the foot arteries.
Conditional

Very low

20.In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene undergoing an endovascular procedure,
consider targeting the artery on angiography that supplies the
anatomical region of the ulcer, when possible or practical.
Best Practice Statement

21. In a person with diabetes and either a foot ulcer or gangrene who
has undergone revascularisation, objectively assess adequacy of
perfusion e.g., using non-invasive bedside testing.
Best Practice Statement

22. A person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and either a foot ulcer or gangrene should be treated by a multidisciplinary team as
part of a comprehensive care plan.
Best Practice Statement

23. In a person with diabetes and peripheral artery disease the following
target levels should be:
HbA1c < 8% (< 64 mmol/mol), but higher target HbA1c value may be
necessary depending on the risk of severe hypoglycaemia.
Blood pressure < 140/ 90 mmHg but higher target levels may be
necessary depending on the risk of orthostatic hypotension