ﬁt should be considered,
irrespective of the blood glucose level.
SGLT-2 inhibitors should not be started in drug naïve people with a
diabetes related foot ulcer or gangrene and temporary discontinuation should be considered in people already using these drugs, until
the affected foot is healed.

DISCLAIMER
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) develops evidenced-based clinical practice guidelines as a resource
to assist members in the practice of vascular surgery.
The guideline recommendations contained herein are
based on a recent review of published evidence. They
reﬂect the available body of evidence, and their applicability reﬂects the limitations of that data and are subject
to reassessment and revision as new knowledge emerges.
Given these limitations, clinical practice guidelines do not
represent a statement of the standard of care, nor do they
substitute for clinician judgment or supplant patient preference or shared decision-making. The Society of Vascular
Surgery recognizes that departure from guidelines may
be warranted when, in the reasonable judgment of the
treating clinician, such course of action is indicated by
the clinical presentation of the patient, limitations of available resources, advances in knowledge or technology, or
patient preference. The reader must rely solely on their
own judgment to determine what practices and procedures, whether included in this practice guideline or not,
are appropriate for them, their patient, their institution,
or their practice.

EXTERNAL EXPERTS, PATIENT
REPRESENTATIVES AND REVIEW PROCESS
The review process had several steps, in which six
external experts, four patient representatives, and guideline reviewers of the International Working Group on the
Diabetic Foot (IWGDF), European Society for Vascular
Surgery (ESVS), and Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS)
were involved. The external experts and patient representatives were from various countries and continents
(Singapore, Japan, South Africa, China, Hong Kong,
Colombia, Bulgaria, Australia, England, the USA). The process started with review of the clinical questions that the
Writing Committee proposed to address, which were
subsequently adjusted, and which formed the basis of
the guideline development. The ﬁrst preliminary version
of the guideline was reviewed by the IWGDF, ESVS, and
members of the SVS Document Oversight Committee.

The revised text was then reviewed by the external experts and patient representatives, and subsequently a
new version was