 horseshoe
kidney, or an aortic aneurysm in the presence of a hostile
abdomen.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

We suggest a retroperitoneal exposure or a transperitoneal
approach with a transverse abdominal incision for patients
with signiﬁcant pulmonary disease requiring OSR.
Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

Aortic clamping. Selection of the ideal clamp site and
extent of reconstruction is based on analysis of crosssectional aortic imaging. These features include proximal aneurysm extension; iliac occlusive or aneurysmal
disease; concomitant renal and mesenteric disease;
anomalous venous anatomy; and presence of calcium,
thrombus, or atherosclerotic debris.
The location of the clamp site should take into consideration the proximal extension of the aneurysm as well
as the structural integrity of the aortic wall. Ideally, the
clamp site should be relatively free of thrombus, atherosclerotic debris, or calciﬁcation. Other important considerations include presence of concomitant visceral aortic
disease and unusual venous anatomy, such as a retroaortic renal vein or left-sided vena cava. The aortic clamp
should be placed in the most caudal position possible to
avoid unnecessary renal and visceral ischemia while
allowing a safe anastomosis into healthy aortic wall. For
repair of an infrarenal aortic aneurysm, the clamp is
placed immediately below the level of the lowest renal
artery; the graft is anastomosed to a rim of normal aortic
wall below the level of the clamp. Performing the proximal anastomosis within healthy aorta is important to
minimize the risk of aneurysmal degeneration at or
above the graft.
The transperitoneal approach is typically performed using a midline incision from the xiphoid to the symphysis
pubis or, in select cases, a minilaparotomy incision. After
placement of a self-retaining retractor, the transverse colon is retracted cephalad and the small bowel mesentery
to the right side of the abdomen, splaying the retroperitoneum and aortic an