 majority

of observational studies did not have comparison groups.
None of the included RCTs used outcome measures
differentially for asymptomatic cosmetic and symptomatic
medical patients.
Most physicians treating varicose veins advocate the
use of compression after sclerotherapy. The duration
and degree of compression are, however, controversial.
Graduated compression therapy reduces the risk of
DVT, edema, and superﬁcial phlebitis; immediate
compression allows more direct apposition of the
treated vein walls, which in turn enhances sclerosis and
decreases thrombus formation.38 The physiologic effects
of graduated compression include increased blood ﬂow
velocity in the deep veins, increased prostacyclin production, increased local capillary clearance, increased transcutaneous oxygen pressure, increased expelled capillary
volume at exercise, and increased release of plasminogen activator. Graduated compression also decreases
capacity and pressure in the veins, decreases visible
superﬁcial varicose veins, and decreases edema and
lipodermatosclerosis.39 All of these effects may justify
the use of compression therapy in patients with chronic
venous disease including after treatment with
sclerotherapy.
A Cochrane collaborative review in 2013 evaluated the
use of elastic compression vs conventional bandaging
after sclerotherapy and concluded that no standard
method of compression after sclerotherapy could be recommended.40 Compression options reviewed included
crepe bandaging, proprietary elastic bandaging, and
compression stockings. Increasing the level of compression prevented dressings from slipping but also caused
more discomfort. Increased elastic compression had no
effect on the incidence of superﬁcial thrombophlebitis
or risk of skin staining. In addition, elastic compression
had no signiﬁcant effect on the disappearance of varicosities per their review.
In a prospective study of 100 patients, 120 limbs with
primary varicose veins treated with polidocanol as a
sclerosant were evaluated. The empty vein technique
was used, and immediately after injection, a long cotton
roll was placed over the entire vein and additional
compression was applied with class I and class II medical
compression hosiery.41 This study reported good sclerosing results in all patients treated. The side effects
were classiﬁed as early or late. There