ographydshould be
reserved for patients in whom revascularization treatment
is being considered. For those patients with asymptomatic
PAD or IC who are not appropriate candidates for revascularization, the costs and potential risks associated with
anatomic studies are not warranted.

Recommendations: Diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease (PAD)

2.1.

2.2.
2.3.

2.4.

2.5.

We recommend using the ABI as the ﬁrst-line noninvasive test to establish a diagnosis of PAD in
individuals with symptoms or signs suggestive of disease. When the ABI is borderline or
normal (>0.9) and symptoms of claudication are suggestive, we recommend an exercise ABI.
We suggest against routine screening for lower extremity PAD in the absence of risk factors,
history, signs, or symptoms of PAD.
For asymptomatic individuals who are at elevated risk, such as those aged >70, smokers, diabetic
patients, those with an abnormal pulse examination, or other established cardiovascular
disease, screening for lower extremity PAD is reasonable if used to improve risk stratiﬁcation,
preventive care, and medical management.
In symptomatic patients who are being considered for revascularization, we suggest using
physiologic noninvasive studies, such as segmental pressures and pulse volume recordings, to
aid in the quantiﬁcation of arterial insufﬁciency and help localize the level of obstruction.
In symptomatic patients in whom revascularization treatment is being considered, we
recommend anatomic imaging studies, such as arterial duplex ultrasound, CTA, MRA, and
contrast arteriography.

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

A

2

C

2

C

2

C

1

B

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CTA, computed tomography angiography; MRA, magnetic resonance angiography.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 7S

Summary of evidence: Diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease (PAD)

Clinical question
Accuracy of ABI in
patients suspected
to have PAD
Accuracy of anatomic
imaging studies and
physiologic
noninvasive studies
in patients suspected
to have PAD

Beneﬁts and harms
of screening
asymptomatic
individuals with ABI
Incremental