ulating this recommendation, the committee
placed a relatively higher value on preventing harms associated with carotid endarterectomy, particularly stroke,
death and myocardial infarction, and a relatively lower
value on the cost and side effects of medical management
(eg, gastrointestinal bleeding with aspirin, myopathy with
statins, and so on).
Medical therapy
The best medical management for stroke prevention
was highlighted in clinical practice guidelines issued jointly
in 2006 by the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, and cosponsored by the Council
on Cardiovascular Radiology and Intervention and the
American Academy of Neurology.13 Lowering blood pressure to a target below 120/80 mm Hg by life style interventions and antihypertensive treatment is recommended in persons who have had an ischemic stroke or transient ischemic
attack (TIA) and are beyond the hyperacute period. Angiotensin-converting enzymes and angiotensin receptor blockers
are recommended as first-choice medications for patients with
diabetes. Glucose control to near-normoglycemic levels (target hemoglobin A1C ⱕ7%) is recommended among diabetics to reduce microvascular complications and, with
lesser certainty, macrovascular complications. Patients with
elevated cholesterol, comorbid coronary artery disease, or
evidence of an atherosclerotic origin should be managed
according to NCEP III guidelines, which include lifestyle
modification and/or medications. Statin agents are recommended targeting low density lipoprotein cholesterol
(LDL-C) of ⬍100 mg/dL for those with coronary heart
disease (CHD) or symptomatic atherosclerotic disease and
LDL-C of ⬍70 mg/dL for very high-risk persons with
multiple risk factors. Patients who have smoked in the last
year should be counseled to quit. Counseling and smoking
cessation medications have been found to be effective in
helping smokers to quit. Lower quality evidence suggested
possible benefits of avoiding environmental tobacco
smoke, reduction of alcohol consumption by heavy drinkers, weight reduction for obese patients, and increasing
physical activity. Antiplatelet agents are recommended for
patients with noncardioembolic ischemic stroke or TIA.
Aspirin (50 to 325 mg/d), the combination of aspir