icosity (CEAP class C2) and presented with no symptoms in
33% and no trophic skin changes in 91%.126
Perioperative thrombosis prophylaxis. Selective
prophylaxis after risk assessment is warranted in patients
who undergo venous surgery. The risk of DVT is increased
in patients with thrombophilia, in those with a history of
DVT or thrombophlebitis, and in obese patients. Similarly
to the recently published ACCP guidelines,159 we recommend, for patients who do not have additional thromboembolic risk factors, that surgeons not routinely use specific
thromboprophylaxis other than early and frequent ambulation (GRADE 2B). For those with additional thromboembolic risk factors, we recommend thromboprophylaxis
with low-molecular-weight heparin, low-dose unfractionated heparin, or fondaparinux (GRADE 1C).
Results of open venous surgery. Results of open
surgery have continued to improve during the past decades,
and HL/S of the GSV performed as an outpatient procedure is a safe and effective operation. Surgical treatment is
superior to conservative management of varicose veins with
use of elastic garments. In the REACTIV trial,144 as discussed previously, results of surgery with compression
treatment were compared with results of compression treatment alone in 246 patients with uncomplicated varicose
veins.143 Surgical treatment included flush ligation of sites
of reflux, stripping of the GSV, and multiple phlebectomies. At 2 years, surgery provided more symptomatic relief,
better cosmetic results, and much-improved QOL over
conservative management.
Marked improvement in QOL after open surgery was
also demonstrated in an RCT by Rasmussen et al.177 In a
prospective cohort study, Mackenzie et al193 monitored
102 consecutive patients who underwent varicose vein
surgery. At 2 years after surgery, health-related QOL markedly improved to baseline when assessed with the Aberdeen

Gloviczki et al 23S

Varicose Vein Symptom Severity Score and the SF-36.
Improvement in QOL from varicose vein surgery has been
shown to