 for access failure, which is a patient-important outcome associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
d
Confidence intervals are wide.
e
The proportion of heterogeneity that is not attributable to chance is ⬎50%.

and 24 months, although the autogenous access group had
fewer complications.75 Of note, subgroup analysis by Murad et al did not demonstrate superiority of upper arm
autogenous access compared with prosthetic accesses in
terms of complications.
4.2. Values and preference
In a patient whose bilateral forearm veins have been
exhausted, the decision whether to place an upper arm
autogenous AV access before placement of forearm prosthetic access is a difficult one. In the effort to maximize
placement of autogenous accesses, surgeons are sometimes
performing upper arm autogenous accesses without considering whether a forearm prosthetic access might be more
appropriate. In some instances, placement of forearm prosthetic access before moving to an autogenous upper arm
access may prove advantageous. Although the upper arm
autogenous access may fare better compared with a forearm
prosthetic access, using these two accesses sequentially may
lead to additive benefit: This practice may help to preserve
upper arm veins for future placement of autogenous access,
may help to increase the caliber of these veins and maximize
the success of future upper arm autogenous access, and may
provide patients with an additional 1 to 3 years of functional hemodialysis access before resorting to catheter use
or other, less studied and less desirable configurations in the
lower extremity or body wall.
4.3. Technical remarks
When forearm autogenous sites are depleted, a forearm
prosthetic access can be considered before moving to the
upper arm for placement of an autogenous access as long as
the forearm prosthetic access does not cross the elbow
when the venous anastomosis is performed. Such access
helps to develop the upper arm veins due to the increased
flow from the forearm prosthetic access, and if the venous
anastomosis is kept below the elbow, upper arm veins are

preserved for future use. In addition in the case of the
prosthetic access failing or failure, care should be directed
and the staff involved in the patient’s care should be informed not to involve the veins above the elbow in procedures designed to maintain or re-establish patency of the
prosthetic access