97 treatment with ramipril reduced cardiovascular events and mortality even in patients without
hypertension. Therefore, ramipril should be considered as a
ﬁrst-line choice for hypertension treatment in PAD patients,
although it should be used with caution in the presence of
renal artery stenosis. In a recent double-blind, placebocontrolled RCT, ramipril (10 mg/d for 24 weeks) was
associated with signiﬁcant improvements in pain-free and
maximal treadmill walking times and in measures of physical
function.98 Given the modest size of this trial (212 patients)
in three hospitals in Australia, further multicenter studies
with longer follow-up are needed to support the routine
use of ramipril for IC. This recommendation was stricken
post-publication by the guidelines committee based on
further review of the evidence and is no longer valid (see
Supplementary Material on page 41S.e1, online only).
The vasoactive drug naftidrofuryl oxalate works by
enhancing aerobic glycolysis and oxygen consumption in
ischemic tissues, is commonly used in Europe, but is not
currently approved in the United States. It has been shown
to increase pain-free walking distance.93,94
Levocarnitine increases energy substrate for skeletal
muscle metabolism. In clinical trials, a modest improvement

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 11S

Recommendations: Medical treatment for intermittent claudication (IC)

4.1.
4.2.
4.3.
4.4.

4.5.
4.6.
4.7.
4.8.
4.9.
4.10.

We recommend multidisciplinary comprehensive smoking cessation interventions for patients
with IC (repeatedly until tobacco use has stopped).
We recommend statin therapy in patients with symptomatic PAD.
We recommend optimizing diabetes control (hemoglobin A1c goal of <7.0%) in patients with
IC if this goal can be achieved without hypoglycemia.
We recommend the use of indicated b-blockers (eg, for hypertension, cardiac indications) in
patients with IC. There is no evidence supporting concerns about worsening claudication
symptoms.
In patients with IC due