 death
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B). Data from CREST
suggest that patients aged ⬍70 years may be better
treated by CAS, but these data need further confirmation.
3. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with ⱖ60% diameter stenosis should be considered for CEA for reduction of
long-term risk of stroke, provided the patient has a 3- to

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

5-year life expectancy and perioperative stroke/death rates
can be ⱕ3% (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A).
4. CEA is preferred over CAS in patients aged ⬎70 years
of age, with long (⬎15-mm) lesions, preocclusive
stenosis, or lipid-rich plaques that can be completely
removed safely by a cervical incision in patients who
have a virgin, nonradiated neck (GRADE 1, Level of
Evidence A).
5. CAS is preferred over CEA in symptomatic patients with
ⱖ50% stenosis and tracheal stoma, situations where
local tissues are scarred and fibrotic from prior ipsilateral
surgery or external beam radiotherapy, prior cranial
nerve injury, and lesions that extend proximal to the
clavicle or distal to the C2 vertebral body (GRADE 2,
Level of Evidence B). CEA may be preferable in situations where ipsilateral tissue planes remain relatively
intact.
6. CAS is preferred over CEA in symptomatic patients with
ⱖ50% stenosis and severe uncorrectable CAD, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). In making this a
GRADE 2 recommendation, the committee recognized
the difficulty in clearly defining this group of individuals,
both in symptomatology and risk assessment, and acknowledged the potential increased role of aggressive
medical management as primary therapy in this highrisk group.
7. Neurologically asymptomatic patients deemed “high
risk” for CEA should be considered for primary medical
management. CEA can be considered in these patients
only with evidence that perioperative morbidity and
mortality is ⬍3%. CAS should not be performed in these
patients except as part of an ongoing clinical trial
(G