-thrombotic)

En

No venous etiology identiﬁed

Anatomy
As

Superﬁcial veins

Ap

Perforator veins

Ad

Deep veins

An

No venous location identiﬁed

Fig 1. Anatomy of great saphenous vein (GSV) and its
tributaries. a., Artery; n., nerve; Superf., superﬁcial; v., vein.
Used with permission of Mayo Foundation for Education
and Research, all rights reserved.

Pathophysiology
Pr

Reﬂux

Po

Obstruction

Adapted, with permission, from Lurie et al.15
a
Each clinical class can be subcharacterized by a subscript letter
indicating the presence (symptomatic [s]) or absence (asymptomatic
[a]) of symptoms attributable to venous disease; symptoms can
include ache, pain, tightness, skin irritation, heaviness, muscle cramps,
and other complaints attributable to venous dysfunction.

interventions, and generic and disease-speciﬁc QoL. The
decision to recommend minimally invasive endovenous
ofﬁce procedures over contemporary high ligation and
saphenous stripping in this guideline was determined
by the differences in early outcomes, including periprocedural pain and discomfort, need for analgesia medications, early minor adverse events, and early QoL
measures, and an earlier return to regular activities.

with vein hooks or forceps through multiple small stab
wounds (mini- or microphlebectomy). Saphenous veinsparing operations (ASVAL [ambulatory selective varicose
vein ablation under local anesthesia], CHIVA [Cure conservatrice et Hemodynamique de l’Insufﬁsance Veineuse
en Ambulatoire (conservative and hemodynamic treatment of venous insufﬁciency in the ofﬁce)]) and cryostripping were not analyzed in our systematic review.
For evidence of the effectiveness of these procedures,
the readers are referred to previous guidelines.20,27
The important outcomes measures used to compare
the procedures performed in all studies included
anatomic closure, complications, time to return to
normal activity, recurrence, need for secondary

Evidence. A systematic review by Farah et al19 analyzed
the data from 30 R