 as the initial diagnostic
tool of choice for CAAs. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2 We suggest magnetic resonance angiography in patients with suspected CAA and pre-existing renal insufﬁciency limiting the use of iodinated contrast material.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).

1.3 We suggest arteriography when noninvasive studies
have not sufﬁciently demonstrated the status of relevant
collateral blood ﬂow or when endovascular intervention
is planned. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.1 We recommend emergent intervention for ruptured
CAAs. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: A (High).
2.2 We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac
artery pseudoaneurysms of any size in patients of acceptable operative risk because of the possibility of rupture.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.3 We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac
artery true aneurysms >2 cm, with a demonstrable increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients
of acceptable risk because of the risk of rupture. Level
of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.4 We suggest observation over intervention for small
(<2 cm), stable asymptomatic CAAs or those in patients
with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities or limited life expectancy. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.1 In patients with ruptured CAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest ligation if sufﬁcient collateral circulation
to the liver can be documented. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.2 In patients with ruptured CAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies who are stable, we recommend treatment with open surgical or appropriate
endovascular methods based on the patient’s anatomy
and underlying clinical condition. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
3.3 For the elective treatment of CAA, we suggest using
an endovascular intervention if it