ine review of any manuscript for which they may have a conﬂict
of interest.
0741-5214
Copyright Ó 2015 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by
Elsevier Inc.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2014.12.009

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

asymptomatic disease and intermittent claudication (IC). Separate practice guidelines for critical limb ischemia (CLI) will be
established in a future document. The committee developed
sets of key questions and, with the input of a methodologist,
condensed these into topics that framed systematic evidence reviews. The quantity and quality of evidence available was also an
important factor in determining the rationale for the systematic
review topics. De novo evidence reviews were undertaken to
examine the rationale for screening in asymptomatic PAD
and the comparative effectiveness of current treatments for
IC. These systematic reviews are published jointly with this
guideline document.1,2
The committee developed the practice guideline by
assigning two or three members to create primary drafts of
each section of the document, highlighting speciﬁc questions
where recommendations were needed and appropriate. Each
section was then reviewed and revised by the remainder of
the writing group and the two co-chairs. All guideline recommendations were reviewed by the full committee and ﬁnalized
via an iterative, consensus process. In considering available
treatment modalities, we focused on options currently available to patients and physicians in the United States (U.S.).
The Grades of Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework was used for
determining the strength of recommendation and the quality
of evidence, as previously reported.3 The quality of evidence
is rated as high (A), moderate (B), or low (C). This rating is
based on the risk of bias, precision, directness, consistency,
and the size of the effect. The strength of recommendation
is graded based on the quality of evidence, balance between
beneﬁts and harms, patients’ values, preferences, and clinical
context. Recommendations are graded as strong (1) or
weak/conditional (2). The term “we recommend” is used
with strong recommendations, and the term “we