), or low (C). This rating is
based on the risk of bias, precision, directness, consistency,
and the size of the effect. The strength of recommendation
is graded based on the quality of evidence, balance between
beneﬁts and harms, patients’ values, preferences, and clinical
context. Recommendations are graded as strong (1) or
weak/conditional (2). The term “we recommend” is used
with strong recommendations, and the term “we suggest”
is used with conditional recommendations.
The methodologist assisted the committee in incorporating the evidence into the recommendations and helped
in rating the quality of evidence and the strength of recommendations. Finally, this guideline was reviewed by the SVS
Documents Oversight Committee that peer reviewed the
document and provided content and methodology expertise.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST
All members of the committee provided updated disclosures on potential conﬂicts of interest (COI), in accordance with SVS policies.4 The ﬁnal roster of the Lower
Extremity Guidelines Committee is in accordance with
the current SVS COI policy, which is summarized elsewhere
(http://www.vascularweb.org/about/policies/Pages/
Conﬂict-of-Interest-Policy.aspx). COI disclosures for each
of the writing group authors are listed at the end of the document in the Appendix.
1. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS
Although the worldwide prevalence of lower extremity
PAD is uncertain,5 an estimated 8 to 12 million Americans
are affected by PAD.6,7 A clear association between the prevalence of PAD and increased age has been established.8,9 In

Conte and Pomposelli et al 3S

an analysis of 2381 patients participating in the U.S. National
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, the prevalence of
PAD was 4.3% overall, with a prevalence of 0.9% in patients
aged between 40 and 49 years, 2.5% in patients aged between 50 and 59 years, 4.7% in patients aged between 60
and 69 years, and 14.5% in patients aged >69 years.8 The
prevalence of PAD is expected to increase in the United
States and worldwide as the population ages, cigarette smoking persists, and the epidemics of diabetes mellitus,