 practice statement)

DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION OF THORACIC AORTIC
DISEASE
Thoracic aortic disease is increasingly an incidental
ﬁnding on studies performed for other indications
because of the increasing use of cross-sectional imaging.
Unlike abdominal ultrasound for screening for AAAs, there
is no low-cost modality that can be used to image DTA disease. Thus, there is more reliance on the patient’s history,
including familial history, as well as on physical examination ﬁndings to guide the ordering of radiographic tests
to screen for thoracic aortic disease. Genetic testing lends
further support for diagnostic imaging. This section is
dedicated to the diagnostic evaluation of a patient with
DTA disease and also discusses speciﬁcs of the history
and physical examination as well as the preoperative
workup for patients before they undergo TEVAR.
Values and preferences
The committee acknowledges the lack of high-quality
evidence supporting speciﬁc screening strategies, particularly as it pertains to screening intervals. The committee
placed high value on preventing catastrophic vascular
events and lower value on screening burdens (including
psychological burdens) and costs.
History and physical examination in the evaluation of
thoracic aortic disease
History of the patient’s illness. The clinical history
should be directed toward determining whether the patient is at elevated risk for TAA and should receive further
diagnostic evaluation. Most patients are older, with uncontrolled hypertension as a primary risk factor. In
younger patients, the clinical history should lead to an
evaluation for secondary causes of severe hypertension,
including the use of legal and illicit sympathomimetic
drugs, especially in patients with syndromic and nonsyndromic genetic defects predisposing to aortic disease.
Patients with an inﬂammatory vasculitis, such as
Takayasu disease, giant cell arteritis, and Behçet arteritis,
should also be considered at high risk for development
of TAA. The history should also focus on history of previous aortic coarctation repair or a history of signiﬁcant

64S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

blunt trauma to the chest (especially those with a rapid
deceleration injury). A detailed family history should be
taken to elicit a history of familial TAA