SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY PRACTICE GUIDELINES
Chronic mesenteric ischemia: Clinical practice guidelines from the
Society for Vascular Surgery
Thomas S. Huber, MD, PhD,a Martin Björck, MD,b Ankur Chandra, MD,c W. Darrin Clouse, MD,d
Michael C. Dalsing, MD,e Gustavo S. Oderich, MD,f Matthew R. Smeds, MD,g and M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,h
Gainesville, Fla; Uppsala, Sweden; La Jolla, Calif; Charlottesville, Va; Indianapolis, Ind; Houston, Tex; St. Louis, Mo; and
Rochester, Minn

ABSTRACT
Background: Chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) results from the inability to achieve adequate postprandial intestinal
blood ﬂow, usually from atherosclerotic occlusive disease at the origins of the mesenteric vessels. Patients typically
present with postprandial pain, food fear, and weight loss, although they can present with acute mesenteric ischemia
and bowel infarction. The diagnosis requires a combination of the appropriate clinical symptoms and signiﬁcant
mesenteric artery occlusive disease, although it is often delayed given the spectrum of gastrointestinal disorders associated with abdominal pain and weight loss. The treatment goals include relieving the presenting symptoms, preventing
progression to acute mesenteric ischemia, and improving overall quality of life. These practice guidelines were developed
to provide the best possible evidence for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with CMI from atherosclerosis.
Methods: The Society for Vascular Surgery established a committee composed of vascular surgeons and individuals
experienced with evidence-based reviews. The committee focused on six speciﬁc areas, including the diagnostic evaluation,
indications for treatment, choice of treatment, perioperative evaluation, endovascular/open revascularization, and surveillance/remediation. A formal systematic review was performed by the evidence team to identify the optimal technique
for revascularization. Speciﬁc practice recommendations were developed using the Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation system based on review of literature, the strength of the data, and consensus.
Results: Patients with symptoms consistent with CMI should undergo an expedited workup, including a computed tomography arteriogram,