 long-term compression stockings.
GUIDELINE. Grade of recommendation: 1 (strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (moderate)
2.1.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the AAGSV or PAGSV who are candidates for intervention, we suggest superﬁcial venous
intervention over long-term compression stockings.
GUIDELINE. Grade of recommendation: 2 (weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (low to very low)
For Rationale and Evidence for Guidelines 2.1.2. to 2.1.3,
see Part I of the varicose vein guidelines.8
2.1.4. In patients with symptomatic varicose veins
who are candidates for endovenous therapy and wish
to proceed with treatment, we suggest against a 3month trial of compression therapy prior intervention.
GUIDELINE. Grade of recommendation: 2 (weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (moderate)
Rationale. There is no rationale for a 3-month trial of
compression therapy before intervention for patients with
CEAP C2 class symptomatic varicose veins who are candidates for endovenous therapy and wish to proceed. Evidence for efﬁcacy of compression therapy in these patients
is less than for efﬁcacy of endovenous ablation (Table IV).
Evidence. Insurance companies and the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently require a 3month trial of compression stockings before intervention
for patients with C2 disease, despite a lack of evidence for
efﬁcacy.90 In a UK-based cost analysis,91 accounting for
clinical recurrences and need for further treatment,
analysis included cost of procedure and subsequent
procedures and quality-adjusted life-years. Across all
measures, compression therapy was found to be inferior
to minimally invasive endovenous therapies (including
ultrasound-guided
FS
[UGFS]
and
endovenous

thermal ablation).91 Although the cost effectiveness was
calculated for the UK, sensitivity analysis suggests that
the conclusions are robust to substantial changes in relative cost, and pertinent to other global healthcare
markets.
As an example, the REACTIV Trial, in which a subgroup
of patients with severe varicosities were randomized to
surgical therapy (HL&S, phlebectomy) compared with
compression therapy.9