let therapy
with aspirin and dipyridamole.
12. In patients with a history of TIAs or minor stroke within
24 hours, we also recommend dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel over aspirin alone
as an alternative to aspirin and dipyridamole.
13. In patients with increased cardiac risk factors undergoing noncardiac surgery, we recommend starting
beta blockade therapy. If not currently on the medication, it should be started as soon as possible preoperatively so that one has an opportunity to assess its
hemodynamic effect. Therefore, beta blockers should
not be started on the day of or 1 day before the
procedure.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

39S

Volume 75, Number 1S

14. In patients undergoing CEA, we recommend statin
therapy.
15. In patients undergoing CEA, we recommend
continuing aspirin therapy.
16. In patients undergoing CEA, during the perioperative
period we recommend individualizing the continued
use of dual antiplatelet therapy based on speciﬁc indications (eg, cardiac).
17. In patients with increased cardiac risk factors undergoing carotid stent procedures, we recommend starting beta blockade therapy. If not currently on the
medication, it should be started as soon as possible
preoperatively so that one has an opportunity to
assess its hemodynamic effect. Therefore, beta
blockers should not be started on the day of or 1 day
before the procedure.
18. In patients undergoing CAS, we recommend statin
use.
19. In patients undergoing CAS, we recommend dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin (325 mg) and clopidogrel (75 mg) initiated before the procedure and
continued for 4 weeks after the procedure.

CAROTID INTERVENTION INDICATIONS
A. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy
in low surgical risk patients?
See the Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3
B. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral CAS in low
surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid artery
stenosis of greater than 50%?
See the Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3
Once a patient with clinically signiﬁcant carotid stenosis is identiﬁed, appropriate