
With endovascular approach, mortality
nonrandomized series
ranged 1.2%-6.7% and complications
of EVT for extensive
ranged 3%-45%. Clinical symptoms
AIOD188
improved in 83% to 100%. Technical
success was achieved in 86% to 100%
of the patients. The 4-year or 5-year
primary and secondary patency rates
were 60% to 86% and 80% to 98%,
respectively

Quality of
evidence
B-C

B-C

B-C

EVT, Endovascular therapy; IC, intermittent claudication; PTA, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.

5C. Infrainguinal disease
Occlusive lesions of the FP segment most commonly
present with IC involving the calf. Isolated lesions of the
crural or foot arteries usually do not cause claudication,
although disease involving both segments may cause severe
calf claudication and symptoms can involve the foot. In
many patients, unilateral calf claudication is well tolerated
and may be managed conservatively, as previously
described. For patients with more severe symptoms
requiring treatment, a trial of exercise therapy, preferably
supervised training108,126 or approved pharmacologic treatment (cilostazol),127 or both, should be undertaken before
invasive therapy. If these measures are unsuccessful, invasive therapy may be appropriate after a detailed discussion
with the patient. As previously noted, this discussion
should cover the natural history of IC, the risks and beneﬁts of open surgery and endovascular interventions, an estimate of long-term patency, likelihood of symptom relief,
and the implications of failed therapy.
In the last decade, vascular specialists have readily
adopted EVT as an attractive alternative to open bypass
surgery for infrainguinal occlusive disease. PTA and stenting are the most commonly used EVTs for focal and
intermediate-length stenosis.9,189 However, the development of other techniques and technologies, such as subintimal angioplasty, devices for crossing and re-entering
long-segment total occlusions, stent grafts, and mechanical

and laser atherectomy, have made it possible to successfully
t