 that RFA was found to be the most
reliable means of IPV closure. After failed FS attempts,
IPV closure was enhanced when thermal ablation was
used as a secondary technique. A common factor
leading to increased failure in all groups was morbid
obesity. Although C2 to C6 patients were enrolled in
this study, only three with C2 disease were included
and all three were treated with foam initially, thereby
signiﬁcantly limiting the applicability of the ﬁndings to
C2 disease. More recently, a technique for cyanoacrylate closure of perforating veins has been described in a
retrospective series of 83 patients with C2-6 disease
(27% C2 patients) showing a success rate of 86.5% at
72 days with complications of mainly superﬁcial phlebitis in about 16% of treated veins recorded within
4 weeks.224 For further evidence on efﬁcacy of IPV
ablation, see Guideline 10.
10. Ablation of incompetent perforating veins
10.1.1. For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class
C2) who have signiﬁcant, symptomatic axial reﬂux of
the GSV or SSV, we recommend against treatment of

44

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

Table XXXI. Evidence to decision framework: Compression therapy vs intervention
Domain

Evidence/panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable
effects of the strategy?

Overall, there was insufﬁcient high Quality of Evidence to
determine whether compression stockings are effective as the
primary treatment for symptomatic varicose veins and if one
stocking is better than the other. However, some studies reported
improvement in symptoms.

Probably yes

How substantial are the
undesirable anticipated
effects?

Reported side effects of discomfort, appearance, and application
difﬁculty. The beneﬁts of stockings were offset by highly variable
reports of compliance, presumably due to the most common side
effects of itching and irritation.

Probably yes

Do the desirable effects
outweigh the undesirable
effects?

Probably

Probably yes

What is the overall certainty of
the evidence