 origin of the vertebral arteries are also common, with the most common variation involving a
vertebral artery arising directly from the aortic arch.
Classiﬁcations of the zones and arch. The aorta can
be divided into 11 zones, 6 of which are in the
thoracic aorta, which are useful for describing the
segment of the vessel and the potential branches
that may be covered or replaced during repair
(Fig 1).3 The utility of these zones in comparative
research is well described in the SVS Ad Hoc Committee on TEVAR Reporting Guidelines.3 Zone 2 is the
segment that includes the LSA, whereas zone 3 is the
considered the proximal DTA. Zone 4 is the straight
portion of descending aorta. Zone 5 is the segment
of the DTA that terminates above the CA. The
remainder of the aorta lies within the abdomen, with
zone 6 involving the celiac aorta (Fig 1). Aortic arch
anatomy also can be critical, especially in the setting
of a type III arch (Fig 2).33
Practice Statement: Future publications and reporting
of TEVAR management should include classiﬁcations
identifying the location of aneurysms and presence or
absence of PAUs with or without IMH as well as the
zones and arch type to aid in comparative studies for
the prediction of patient outcomes after interventions.
(Ungraded good practice statement)

THORACIC AORTIC HISTOPATHOLOGY
Thoracic aneurysm and atherosclerotic disease. The
most common histopathologic feature of TAA is elastic
tissue fragmentation and loss of smooth muscle cells,
resulting in the collection of matrix material in the area
of disintegration. These medial degenerative changes

Fig 1. Zones of the thoracic aorta.3

are variably associated with wall thinning, loss of elastic
and muscle ﬁbers in the aortic media, accumulation of
mucopolysaccharide cysts between the ﬁbers, and subsequent wall expansion. Common risk factors include
hypertension and connective tissue disease. Atherosclerosis, on the other hand, is typically characterized by
intimal plaques composed of variable combinations of
ﬁbrous tissue and lipid with calciﬁcation. Inﬂ