, and one or
more of the outflow veins are usually suitable as a conduit.
The outflow vein candidates in the arm are the cephalic,
basilic, and brachial veins. In situations where these veins
are not suitable, there may be an adequate vein in the
forearm that can be used as a retrograde-flow secondary
autogenous access, after disrupting one or more valves.
This is another reason why preoperative imaging to identify
all vessel options is so critical, especially in patients with few,
if any, access options available. In most patients with an
established forearm prosthetic access, one or more of the
outflow veins becomes a mature, adequate autogenous
access conduit.107,108 If an imaging study confirms that the
outflow vein is suitable, conversion of this outflow vein into
an upper arm access provides an ideal autogenous alternative that is durable and usually usable immediately, thus
obviating or minimizing the need for a catheter. A separate
imaging study is not usually necessary, because the fistulogram performed for the graft failure can be used to examine
the outflow and central veins.
B. Remote secondary autogenous AV access construction. This strategy involves a physical examination
and vessel mapping in a patient with a failing prosthetic
access where an imaging study has shown that a suitable
outflow vein is not available. In this situation, evaluation of
the vessels of the contralateral extremity should be performed. If suitable remote vessels are identified, a secondary
autogenous AV access construction should be undertaken as
soon as feasible to avoid the need for long-term use of a
catheter when the failing access is no longer salvageable.
7. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Management
of nonfunctional or failed arteriovenous access.
We suggest open surgery, endovascular means, or a
combination of both to maintain or restore patency in
AV access (GRADE 2, very low-quality evidence).
7.1. Evidence
The choice between open and endovascular interventions to improve the functionality or to restore or maintain
patency in accesses that show signs of impending failure is

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

based on nonrandomized studies that showed both procedures to be moderately effective and safe. Owing to the lack
of such