-dimensional centerline reconstruction can be generated using the MRA data set.68,69
Recommendation 6: We suggest contrast-enhanced
MRA for preoperative planning for patients with severe
allergy to iodinated contrast material. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). IVUS has become an
important adjunct in the endovascular treatment of the
thoracic aorta. The presence of thrombus, calciﬁcations,
and poor aortic wall integrity can also be seen in the
setting of PAUs. IVUS adds signiﬁcant value in treatment
of TAA by reducing intraoperative contrast material volume and radiation use. It also allows precise intraoperative measurement of distances and diameters of the
aorta, adding to the preoperative CTA measurements,
especially in angulated aortas.70,71
Recommendation 7: We recommend IVUS use in
TEVAR for TAA to assess landing zones when crosssectional imaging is of poor quality, a more detailed evaluation of landing zones or branch vessel origins is
needed, or a decrease in contrast material use is desired.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)

PERIOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIVE
DECISION-MAKING
Perioperative medical management
Medical management of patients with thoracic aortic
disease has been thoroughly described.6 This includes
control of hypertension, statin therapy/lipid optimization,
and smoking cessation. Medical therapy with antihypertensive agents is widely used as a ﬁrst-line treatment in
patients with aortic disease.72 Blood pressure control is
based on anti-impulse therapy to limit the ventricular
ejection force and the aortic wall stress and is especially
important in cases of symptomatic aneurysms or acute
aortic syndromes. The goal of therapy is to reduce the
systolic blood pressure to <20 mm Hg and the heart
rate to <60 beats/min when possible before, during,
and after TEVAR (see exceptions in recommendations
for spinal cord protection). This is usually achieved with
intravenous beta blockers (or alpha/beta blockers) as

ﬁrst-line therapy. For patients who do not respond to or
are intolerant