25 mg) appears at least as
effective as higher doses, and higher doses may in fact be
less effective.157 Patients should continue aspirin therapy
after CEA indefinitely, according to recommendations for
high-risk patients with atherosclerosis.100,136-139
There has been a consensus that preprocedural clopidogrel should be stopped approximately 5 days before
elective CABG.46 Recent data from a large, retrospective,
multicentered clinical experience158 suggest that clopidogrel may be safely continued through the perioperative
period without increased bleeding risk. It is therefore reasonable to individualize the management of perioperative
clopidogrel therapy. There is no clear information regarding the risks or benefits of continued clopidogrel monotherapy in the periprocedural period for CEA.
One meta-analysis showed preoperative statin therapy
resulted in a significant reduction in perioperative mortality
in patients undergoing vascular surgery.159 One small randomized trial found that perioperative death, MI, and
stroke in patients undergoing vascular surgery was reduced
in the group treated with atorvastatin.160 In one large
observational study of hospital records of 780,591 patients
undergoing noncardiac surgery, the risk-adjusted mortality
rate was significantly lower in those who received perioperative statins than in those who were not taking statins (odds
ratio, 0.62; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.58-0.67).161
The evidence for continued use of statin therapy currently
remains largely observational. Furthermore, the optimal
time for starting therapy, the duration of therapy, dose, or
target LDL levels to be achieved still remain to be determined.

G. Medical management for the perioperative period
of CEA

H. Medical management for the perioperative period
of CAS

Hypertension is a common comorbidity in patients
undergoing CEA. Blood pressure fluctuations, both
above and below normal, are a significant source of
morbidity and may contribute to MI and postoperative
reperfusion syndrome. Careful periprocedural blood
pressure management is critical to obtaining optimal
results from the operation. Although the most recent
AHA guidelines do not classify CEA as a