circulation strokes.20 However, the urgency of the repair
and the condition of the victim may preclude preoperative
assessment. If the LSA is covered, intraoperative angiography of the right vertebral artery would allow the most
expeditious assessment of the adequacy of the posterior
circulation. If the right vertebral artery is atretic or hypoplastic with or without an intact Circle of Willis, the decision to revascularize the left subclavian artery must be
individualized taking into account the availability of surgical expertise, condition of the patient, and other injuries.19
Issue 6: Systemic heparinization. The safety of systemic heparinization during endovascular repair in a multiply injured patient with a closed head injury or abdominal
solid organ injury is a controversial issue. The majority of
committee members indicated that they routinely use systemic heparin but at a lower dose than in elective TEVAR.
A minority opinion was expressed that heparin may not be
necessary as most of these cases can be performed relatively
rapidly, and the risk of a thrombotic event is likely small.21
In the final analysis, the decision must be individualized
based on the balance of the perceived risks of bleeding in a
particular organ system vs the thromboembolic complications.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 53, Number 1

Issue 7: Spinal drainage. Spinal drainage has been
the mainstay of management for spinal cord ischemia during TEVAR. The issue of prophylactic spinal drainage is
controversial even for treatment of degenerative thoracic
aneurysms and, to be sure, no data exist for traumatic
injuries. SCI is a low-incidence event (3%) after TEVAR for
traumatic injuries.9 Based on this and the proximal location
of the injury, limited coverage of the thoracic aorta and the
risk of epidural hematoma in a coagulopathic patient, there
was unanimity of opinion that spinal drainage is not routinely indicated, and it should only be placed for symptoms
of spinal cord ischemia.
Issue 8: Choice of anesthesia— general vs regional
vs local. There was a strong consensus favoring general
anesthesia. While it is possible to perform TEVAR under
local anesthesia (minority opinion), unreliable cooperation