).114,115
The CXVUQ was developed to provide a QOL measure for patients with venous ulcers. It provides a consistent
measure of patient-reported QOL in venous ulcers regardless of the treatment selected. Combining it with a generic
measurement instrument may provide valuable information
on the progression of ulcers and on the available treatment
measures.3
Physician-generated measurement tools
The physician-generated measurement tools include
the CEAP classification,76,77 which, as discussed previously, is an accurate description of signs and symptoms.
However, the instrument contains too many static elements, especially in classes C4 and C5, and is not particularly suitable for an assessment of improvement after
therapy.116
The VCSS was introduced by Rutherford et al104 and
has been used successfully in several studies to evaluate

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May Supplement 2011

changes in signs and symptoms over time and to quantify
outcomes.108,116-121 The VCSS is based on physician assessment of nine clinical signs or symptoms of CVD, including pain, presence of varicose veins, edema, signs of
CVI, and venous ulcers. Compliance with compression
therapy is also assessed. The VCSS correlates well with the
CEAP score and with ultrasonographic assessment of the
severity of venous valvular incompetence or obstruction.113,121-126
A revised VCSS (Table IV) has been developed recently
to clarify ambiguities, update terminology, and simplify
application of the first version.78 It now incorporates the
important language of the PRO assessment tools. The
presumption of venous origin is intended for all clinical
descriptors, and each limb is considered and scored separately. These revisions are currently being validated in a
multicenter field test.
The strength of the VCSS is in its evaluative properties
in identifying subtle intrasubject changes over time after an
intervention.122,123 An evaluation of each VCSS component allows outcome analysis on many levels, including
technical, patient-reported, and clinical outcomes. In this
sense, the revised VCSS is unique among clinical outcome
assessments and PROs. Although it is administered by a
physician,