ﬁrm or exclude the presence of signiﬁcant carotid
stenoses, these signs are thought to be an appropriate
indication for further directed screening with carotid
duplex ultrasound, especially if the carotid bruit is noted
in a patient with other atherosclerotic risk factors.
Asymptomatic patients with previous neck irradiation. With the increased use and success of radiotherapy
to treat head and neck malignancies, the survival of patients with these diseases has achieved remarkable progress.112 Vascular injury and carotid stenosis have received
increased attention. Patients who have undergone neck
irradiation >5 years earlier have an eight times greater
risk of developing carotid stenosis compared with those
with a postradiotherapy interval of <5 years. Severe
postradiotherapy carotid stenosis is also associated with
older age, smoking, and heart disease. Patients who have
undergone radiotherapy of the head and neck might
have a prevalence of signiﬁcant carotid stenosis that
would justify screening in asymptomatic patients.113 The
greatest incidence of carotid stenosis was noted
w15 years after radiation exposure, with ipsilateral rates
of stenosis as high as 21.3%.15,113,114 Unlike typical
atherosclerotic disease, which often involves only the
carotid bifurcation, the distribution of radiation-induced
carotid disease can also involve the proximal common
carotid arteries. The presence of extensive proximal disease would have obvious implications for surgical or
endovascular treatment of such lesions, if indicated.
It has been proposed by some that patients with previous radiotherapy should undergo screening duplex evaluations even in the absence of clinical cerebrovascular
symptoms.114 However, the optimal timing and frequency of such screening are undeﬁned, and this
concept has not been universally accepted. The evidence
does not appear to be sufﬁcient to recommend routine
screening for asymptomatic patients with previous
neck radiotherapy in the absence of other deﬁned risk
factors.
Patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms. Although
patients with PAD and severe CAD are clearly at greatly
increased risk of having occult carotid artery stenosis,
the correlation