ciency (clinical, etiological, anatomic, pathophysiological classiﬁcation [CEAP] class C2-C6). High ligation and stripping (HL/S) was associated with higher anatomic closure rates at 30 days and 5 years when compared with radiofrequency
ablation and ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy (UGFS) (moderate certainty), while no signiﬁcant difference was seen
when compared with endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) at 5 years. UGFS was associated with an increased risk of recurrence
compared with HL/S. EVLA was associated with lower anatomic closure rates at 30 days than cyanoacrylate closure (CAC)
and higher rates at one and 5 years when compared with UGFS. Thermal interventions were associated with lower generic
quality of life scores and an increased risk of adverse events when compared with CAC or n-butyl cyanoacrylate (low certainty). Thermal interventions were associated with a lower risk of recurrent incompetence when compared with UGFS and
an increased risk of recurrent incompetence than CAC. The evidence for great saphenous vein ablation alone to manage
perforator disease was inconclusive.
Conclusions: The current systematic review summarizes the evidence to develop and support forthcoming updated SVS/
AVF/American Vein and Lymphatic Society clinical practice guideline recommendations. The evidence supports duplex
scanning for evaluating patients with varicose veins and conﬁrms that HL/S resulted in similar long-term saphenous vein
closure rates as EVLA and in better rates than radiofrequency ablation and UGFS. Thermal interventions were associated
with inferior generic quality of life scores than nonthermal interventions, but had a lower risk of recurrent incompetence
than UGFS. The recommendations in the guidelines should consider this information as well as other factors such as
patients’ values and preferences, anatomic considerations of individual patients, and surgical expertise. (J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:1155-71.)
Keywords: Meta-analysis; Guideline; Varicose veins

Varicose veins and chronic venous insufﬁciency are a
major global health concern, impacting 10% to 30% of
the world population and accounting for two percent

of the national healthcare budgets.1,