-free walking time by >6 minutes. Questionnaire scores for walking distance improved by 203% and
walking speed by 130%. These improvements were not predicted from routine noninvasive testing alone. The authors
were among the ﬁrst to suggest that such functional status
outcomes should be measured directly.223
The perceived morbidity associated with open surgical
therapy for IC is an important factor in clinical decision making. As with any surgical procedure, the key to a successful
outcome is appropriate patient selection. Ideal candidates
for surgical bypass for claudication should have minimal
comorbidities, good life expectancy, be signiﬁcantly disabled
speciﬁcally by claudication symptoms, and have reasonable
runoff and good conduit available for bypass.
One of the major advantages of bypass compared with
angioplasty is durability as measured by patency of the
intervention. Van der Zaag et al224 reported the results
of a randomized trial of angioplasty vs surgical bypass in
56 patients with claudication and 5- to 15-cm-long lesions
of the SFA. The primary end point was reocclusion. No
30-day deaths occurred in either group, conﬁrming the observations of many others in nonprospective studies that
surgical bypass for claudication is safe in appropriately
selected patients. More than half of the angioplasty patients
experienced a reocclusion. Surgical bypass was associated
with a signiﬁcant 31% absolute risk reduction for the end
point of subsequent reocclusion. Clinical improvement in
symptoms was also signiﬁcantly better for patients who underwent bypass (absolute difference 20%). Only one patient
among the 56 enrolled subsequently required amputation;
that individual had been initially treated by angioplasty. No
amputations were required in the bypass surgery patients.
Bypass surgery has also been shown to be associated
with superior functional improvement compared with other
treatment modalities by numerous investigators. Wolf
et al225 compared surgery and balloon angioplasty for peripheral vascular disease in a randomized fashion. Bypass
and angioplasty both showed sustained improvements in hemodynamics and QoL. Primary success was more often
achieved with bypass, but the differences were not signiﬁcant. Lundgren et al1