 small aneurysms.
Formal arteriography may rarely be necessary for preinterventional planning when noninvasive studies have not
sufﬁciently demonstrated the status of relevant anatomy
or collateral blood ﬂow. However, it is most frequently
performed at the time of a planned endovascular
intervention.

that CAAs after spontaneous dissection behave differently,
and no distinct recommendation for this subgroup can be
made. Similarly, patients with post-stenotic dilation of the
celiac artery due to compression by the median arcuate
ligament have a different pathologic process and require
individualized decision-making. They should be treated
conservatively unless they become symptomatic or are
determined to have true aneurysmal degeneration.
Like other visceral aneurysms, pseudoaneurysms of the
celiac artery appear more prone to rupture than true aneurysms, and most authors recommend treatment of all
visceral pseudoaneurysms in any anatomic territory. In
the series by Tulsyan et al1 in which 48 visceral aneurysms
were treated, 80% of 28 pseudoaneurysms were symp-

2. Treatment indications, size criteria, and true vs false aneurysms
Recommended intervention criteria for CAA
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

We recommend emergent intervention for ruptured CAAs.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

2.2

We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac artery pseudoaneurysms of any size
in patients of acceptable operative risk because of the possibility of rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.3

We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac artery true aneurysms >2 cm, with a
demonstrable increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients of acceptable
risk because of the risk of rupture.

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

2.4

We suggest observation over intervention for small (<2 cm), stable asymptomatic CAAs
or those in patients with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities or limited life expectancy.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Numerous case reports and series in the literature have
shown that a signiﬁcant proportion of CAAs present with
rupture. Therefore, an