Consensus statements
5.2.1.

In asymptomatic patients with C2 disease, prophylactic intervention does not prevent progression of venous disease. Weight
control, compression stockings, and avoiding prolonged standing may be beneﬁcial.

5.2.2.

Interventions to treat varicose veins can be performed in an ofﬁce-based setting, surgery center, or hospital operating room,
at the discretion of the physician, who is specialized in vein care. Better patient experience and lower cost was reported for
procedures performed in an ofﬁce-based setting.

5.2.3.

In patients with symptomatic C2 disease, isolated SFJ incompetence does not justify ablation of an otherwise competent
GSV.

5.2.4.

In patients with symptomatic C2 disease, ablation of the incompetent GSV may be indicated, even if the axial reﬂux is not
complete and the SFJ is competent. Ablation of isolated reﬂuxing GSV segments, in the presence of competent segments
proximally and distally, is rarely indicated. Shared decision-making with the patient is warranted.

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

5

Volume 12, Number 1

Continued.
5. Factors affecting choice of superﬁcial truncal ablation and outcome
5.2.5.

In patients with reﬂux in the below-knee GSV, ablation to the lowest point of reﬂux resulted in better early outcome.
Nonthermal techniques are better for ablation of reﬂuxing distal calf saphenous veins, to avoid thermal nerve injury.

5.2.6.

In patients with an epifascial or superﬁcial saphenous vein, thermal ablation may result in skin burns, hyperpigmentation, or
induration, while nonthermal techniques may cause hyperpigmentation or induration. Miniphlebectomy or limited stripping
is safe and effective if the saphenous vein is close to the skin (<0.5 cm).

5.2.7.

For patients with large (>10 mm), nonaneurysmal saphenous veins, thermal ablation with EVLA or RFA should be performed
rather than using nonthermal ablation techniques.

5.2.8. The incidence of superﬁcial thrombophle