 vein lower extremity
transposition (straight). This autogenous access is performed between the end of the femoral vein and the femoral artery. The femoral vein and femoral artery are identified through longitudinal incisions. The femoral vein is
mobilized for an appropriate length, usually into the adductor canal, but not including the popliteal. The femoral
vein is tunneled superficially and laterally to the femoral
artery to perform the anastomosis. In the presence of an
unacceptable distal femoral artery, the vein may be looped
back to the femoral artery in the groin.
Autogenous posterior tibial– greater saphenous lower extremity direct access. This autogenous access is performed
between the great saphenous vein and the posterior tibial
artery in the distal calf. The great saphenous vein and
posterior tibial artery are identified through a longitudinal
incision at the ankle. The distal end of the great saphenous
vein is mobilized to the posterior tibial artery to perform
the anastomosis.123
Configurations of prosthetic AV accesses
Forearm prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic radial–antecubital forearm straight access. This prosthetic access is performed between the antecubital vein in the antecubital
fossa and the radial artery in the wrist using a prosthetic
graft as conduit. The antecubital vein is exposed through a
transverse incision distal to the antecubital crease. The
radial artery is exposed through a longitudinal incision in
the wrist overlying the palpable radial artery pulse. The
prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially and laterally between the antecubital vein and the radial artery to perform
the two anastomoses.
Prosthetic brachial–antecubital forearm looped access. This
prosthetic access is performed between the antecubital vein
and the brachial artery in the antecubital fossa using a
prosthetic graft as conduit. The antecubital vein and brachial artery are exposed through a transverse incision in the
antecubital fossa. The prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially in a forearm loop between