 Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend using the mesenteric duplex ultrasound (DUS) examination as the preferred screening
test for mesenteric artery occlusive disease (MAOD).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We recommend using CT arteriography (CTA) as the
preferred deﬁnitive imaging test for MAOD unless unusual anatomic features obscure the anatomy such
that a catheter-based arteriogram may be required.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Indications for treatment
Recommendations.
1. We recommend revascularization in patients with CMI
to reverse their presenting symptoms (ie, weight loss,
food fear, diarrhea, postprandial pain) and improve
their overall quality of life. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
2. We recommend that total parenteral nutrition is
not an acceptable alternative to revascularization for
patients with CMI owing to the risk of clinical deterioration, bowel infarction, and catheter-related complications. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We suggest that the SMA is the primary target for
revascularization. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We suggest that the celiac axis and inferior mesenteric
artery are secondary targets for revascularization and
that revascularization may aid in symptom relief if the
SMA is not suitable for intervention or the technical
result is not acceptable. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
5. In patients with symptoms consistent with CMI and
occlusive disease isolated to a single mesenteric
vessel, particularly the SMA, we suggest a shared
decision-making approach between the patient and
provider to discuss revascularization as a treatment
option. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD, we
suggest a shared decision-making approach between
the patient and provider to discuss revascularization
as a treatment option. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C