January Supplement 2021

underlying medical conditions and management of their
atherosclerotic risk factors. Patients may beneﬁt from
enteral or parenteral nutritional supplements, although
this should not delay or prolong the preoperative evaluation before deﬁnitive revascularization. A CTA should be
obtained before revascularization to further deﬁne the
anatomy and extent of occlusive disease.
Detailed justiﬁcation
The atherosclerotic MAOD that leads to the development of CMI is a local manifestation of a systemic disease. Accordingly, patients undergoing treatment for
CMI have the typical cardiovascular risk factors and associated comorbidities (Table I). The associated comorbidities and risk factors should be managed optimally
before any revascularization for CMI, similar to patients
undergoing any major vascular surgical procedures.
There are well-accepted, published guidelines from
most of the medical subspecialties to guide the preoperative evaluation, including those from the American
Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology for the optimal preoperative cardiac evaluation for
patients undergoing major noncardiac surgery.125 Patients with active cardiac conditions, including unstable
angina, recent myocardial infarction, signiﬁcant arrhythmias, poorly compensated congestive heart failure, and/
or signiﬁcant valvular disease should be seen in consultation with a cardiologist and may beneﬁt from preoperative cardiac intervention. Patients should be counseled
about the importance of smoking cessation and should
be treated with an antiplatelet agent and a cholesterollowering agent, preferentially a statin, unless there are
speciﬁc contraindications.
The preoperative evaluation and workup should be
expedited in patients with CMI to avoid any untoward
events and progression to AMI. There is a spectrum of
symptoms for patients with CMI that range from intermittent, mild postprandial pain to persistent pain, unrelated to any oral intake. The latter is clearly more
worrisome for the progression to AMI with bowel infarction. Accordingly, patients with these more severe symptoms should likely be admitted and revascularized
urgently. They may beneﬁt from systemic anticoagulation, although the supporting evidence is limited. Parenteral or enteral (if appropriate) nutritional supplements
can help to replete the