. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2. We recommend that patients with an asymptomatic PAA $20 mm in diameter should undergo
repair to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications and limb loss. Level of recommendation:
grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
For selected patients at higher clinical risk, repair
can be deferred until the PAA has become
$30 mm, especially in the absence of thrombus.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality
of evidence: C (low)

3. We suggest that for patients with a PAA <20 mm, in
the presence of thrombus and clinical suspicion of embolism or imaging evidence of poor distal runoff, repair
should be considered to prevent thromboembolic
complications and possible limb loss. Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C
(low)
4. For asymptomatic patients, with a life expectancy of
$5 years, we suggest open PAA repair, provided that
an adequate saphenous vein is present. For patients
with a diminished life expectancy, if intervention is
indicated, endovascular repair should be considered.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality
of evidence: C (low)
5. We recommend that intervention for thrombotic and/
or embolic complications of PAA be stratiï¬ed by the

From the Boston Medical Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Bos-

Correspondence: Alik Farber, MD, MBA, Boston Medical Center, 1 Boston Medi-

tona; the John Muir Medical Center, Danvilleb; the Clinic of Vascular and

cal Center Place, Ste D506, Collamore, Boston, MA 02118 (e-mail: alik.farber@

Endovascular Surgery, Athens Medical Group, University of Athens, Athensc;

bmc.org).

the London Health Sciences Center, Western University, Londond; the Univer-

Independent peer review and oversight has been provided by members of the

sity of Pittsburgh Medical Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburghe; the

Society for Vascular Surgery Document Oversight Committee (Ruth Bush, Chair,

School of Medicine, Washington University, St Louisf; The Ohio State Univer-

Marc