Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.1: We suggest daily antiplatelet therapy (ie, aspirin,
81 mg) for patients with RAA. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.2: We suggest open surgical reconstructive techniques for the elective repair of most RAAs in patients
with acceptable operative risk. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.3: We suggest ex vivo repair and autotransplantation
for complex distal branch aneurysms over nephrectomy
when it is technically feasible. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.4: We suggest endovascular techniques for the elective repair of anatomically appropriate RAAs to include
stent graft exclusion of main RAAs in patients with
poor operative risk and embolization of distal and parenchymal aneurysms. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.5: We suggest consideration of laparoscopic and
robotic techniques as an interventional alternative based
on institutional resources and surgeon experience with
minimally invasive techniques. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
4.1: We suggest screening female patients of childbearing age with RAA for ﬁbromuscular dysplasia with
a focused history and one-time axial imaging study (ie,
CTA or MRA) to assess for cerebrovascular, mesenteric,
and iliac artery dysplasia. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).

5.1: We suggest completion imaging after open surgical
reconstruction for RAA, before hospital discharge, by way
of axial imaging with CTA or MRA or arteriography in
select cases, and long-term follow-up with surveillance
imaging. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
5.2: For patients managed nonoperatively, we suggest
annual surveillance imaging until two consecutive studies
are stable; thereafter, surveillance imaging may be
extended to every 2 to 3 years. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (