. Vascular surgery
trainees are expected to acquire sufﬁcient training to
perform vascular catheter-based interventions, and previous guidelines have been published.3 Trainees are expected to submit their endovascular case load
experience as part of their complete operative log, as
veriﬁed by the program director, to the ACGME. Experience should be gained in performing diagnostic catheterizations among the various vascular beds, and at least
half should be selective catheterizations with 75% being
arterial and 25% venous.3 Similarly, at least 75% of the
therapeutic procedures should be on the arterial system
so that the majority of the endovascular experience is not
gained primarily through arteriovenous dialysis access
interventions.4 The minimum number of diagnostic

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Calligaro et al

1341

Volume 67, Number 5

broad range of exposures to catheter-based procedures
in vascular surgery training with a variety of platforms
and based on the most recent recommendations of
the Association of Program Directors in Vascular Surgery
(personal communication), we recommend a minimum
of 20 carotid angiograms, with half as the primary operator, and a minimum of 15 carotid stent procedures,3
with half as the primary operator.5
Open Vascular Surgery Requirements. The vascular
surgery trainee is expected to have performed sufﬁcient
numbers of open operations covering the full spectrum
in the ﬁeld of vascular surgery. The requirement is carefully evaluated by the RRC-S. This body and the ABS
track individual components of complex operations and
consider all components when evaluating programs and
trainees. Trainees are expected to submit their operative
experience to the ACGME. Their case load is veriﬁed on
their graduation by their program director.
The RRC has established minimum criteria for major
vascular reconstructive procedures performed by
vascular surgery trainees (https://www.acgme.org/
Portals/0/VS_CatMins.pdf). The required numbers are
250 major vascular cases for all vascular surgery trainees,
regardless of whether they participate in the traditional
(5 þ 2), early specialization (4 þ 2), or integrated (0 þ 5)
programs. These cases should reﬂect