
angioplasty or interposition vein graft reconstruction are
commonly used. Rarely, carotid artery ligation may be
required. Surgical management can be challenging,
and it is complicated by inﬂammation and scar tissue
related to the primary surgical procedure, as well as
localized sepsis and inﬂammatory changes. In some
cases where the soft tissue or skin is severely compromised, a rotational muscle or myocutaneous ﬂap should
be considered to achieve adequate coverage of the
vascular reconstruction or ligated vessels.
Summary and recommendations for the management of prosthetic patch infection after CEA.
1. In patients who have undergone CEA with prosthetic
patch angioplasty reconstruction, empirical prophylactic antibiotics should be considered during dental

and other procedures with a reasonable risk of transient bacteremia.
2. Perioperative antibiotics should be administered
routinely during primary CEA.
3. Wound cellulitis in the immediate perioperative
period should be treated with appropriate antibiotic
therapy and close monitoring.
4. The presence of atypical wound edema, swelling, a
mass, or sinus in the neck should be evaluated
promptly in patients with prior CEA.
5. Investigative studies for suspected prosthetic patch
infection should include duplex scanning and CTA,
as well as appropriate laboratory and infectious disease studies.
6. Presumptive antibiotics directed toward common
pathogens should be started in patients with suspected prosthetic patch infection.
7. In patients with a documented patch infection, operative management is indicated. Prosthetic material
must be excised, and arterial reconstruction performed using autologous material. Appropriate soft
tissue coverage must be assured, using rotational
muscle ﬂaps or myocutaneous ﬂaps if necessary.
8. Temporary use of covered stent in cases of infection
and patch blowout as a bridge to a more controlled
operation may be considered.
Restenosis after CEA
Recurrent carotid artery stenosis following CEA is reported to occur in 5% to 22% of patients.417 However,
very few (3%) of these recurrent stenoses are symptomatic, and few typically require reintervention.417,453-455 As
reported in the CREST study, the risk of signiﬁcant restenosis or occlusion was 6