 the costs of the different treatment options and
counsel their patients accordingly.
Because cost-effectiveness will vary with the setting
and local reimbursement system, and most data on
cost have come from outside the United States, our supporting systematic review did not evaluate costeffectiveness. In British studies, physician-compounded
UGFS had had the lowest initial costs, although this
was partially offset by the long-term costs of reintervention and lower QoL.85,156 High ligation and saphenous
stripping in the inpatient setting was the most expensive
strategy. At a threshold of £20,000 ($28,000) per qualityadjusted life-year in the United Kingdom, EVLA
ranked ﬁrst, followed by RFA, UGFS, high ligation and
saphenous stripping, and conservative care in terms of
cost-effectiveness.85 For those patients for whom the
out-of-pocket costs are a dominant consideration,
the treating physician must be aware of the costs of
the different treatment options and counsel the patient

Fig 2. Anatomy of small saphenous vein (SSV) and its
tributaries. n., Nerve; v., vein. Used with permission of Mayo
Foundation for Education and Research, all rights
reserved.

accordingly. A systematic review of the costeffectiveness of varicose vein treatment in the United
Kingdom found that physician-compounded UGFS had
had a signiﬁcantly greater reintervention rate compared
with the other procedures, which had all had similar
reintervention rates. The cost of EVLA vs UGFS was
£16,966 ($23,700) per quality-adjusted life-year, supporting EVLA as the most cost-effective procedure. RFA was
a close second, and MOCA, UGFS, CAC, conservative
care, and high ligation and stripping were not costeffective at the current prices in the U.K. National Health
Service.85 A Canadian cost-analysis study found that RFA
would be w$110 to $220 more expensive than open
surgery but with fewer major and minor early complications (low level of evidence).157
Small saphenous vein. The SSV is one of the important
superﬁcial truncal veins