.
Postintervention medical treatment
After intervention for lower extremity vascular disease,
aggressive medical therapy is indicated not only to prevent
future cardiovascular events but also to improve patency of
the revascularization. Patients should be counseled on risk
factor modiﬁcation, as previously described, and have
accepted pharmacologic treatment for system atherosclerosis, especially statins and antiplatelet therapy. In some patients, systemic anticoagulation may also be required.
Antiplatelet agents
Antiplatelet agents are generally used to treat patients
after lower extremity bypass. Although, antiplatelet therapy
has not been conclusively proven to improve bypass graft
patency, its beneﬁt in decreasing long-term postprocedural
adverse cardiovascular events is sufﬁcient indication for the
use of these agents in most patients, who are considered to
be at high risk for cardiovascular complications and stroke.
In a systematic review236 of the effect of antiplatelet
treatment compared with placebo on bypass graft patency,
patients receiving antiplatelet therapy had improved patency
at 1 year (OR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.43-0.86). When venous and
prosthetic bypasses were analyzed separately, there was no
improvement in 12-month patency in patients undergoing
venous bypass who received acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) or
dipyridamole compared with placebo. Conversely, 12month primary patency was markedly improved in patients
undergoing prosthetic bypass who received ASA compared
with placebo (OR, 0.22; 95%, CI, 0.12-0.38). Major
bleeding events were more frequent in patients receiving
ASA therapy but did not reach statistical signiﬁcance.
The effect of adding clopidogrel to ASA was studied in 851
patients in the Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic Acid In Bypass
Surgery for Peripheral Arterial Disease Trial (CASPAR).237
This placebo-controlled RCT found no difference in outcome
between patients receiving ASA vs ASA plus clopidogrel undergoing lower extremity bypass. However, the subset of

patients undergoing prosthetic bypass (30%), demonstrated
improved patency and limb salvage when receiving