 need for remedial
interventions. Endovascular revascularization is the recommended initial treatment for the overwhelming majority of patients, provided that the lesion is amenable.
The endovascular approach is associated with a lower
perioperative complication rate and shorter inpatient
hospital length of stay, although the rate of recurrent
symptoms and need for reintervention are both higher.
There does not seem to be a difference in the perioperative or longer term mortality rate between the endovascular and open approaches. The evidence supporting
the initial endovascular approach has been consistent
across the literature and includes individual case series,
meta-analyses, national series from administrative databases, decision analyses, and other clinical practice
guidelines. Open surgical revascularization should be
reserved for patients who are not endovascular candidates and those who have failed prior endovascular interventions. Open revascularization may also be
appropriate as the initial procedure for select younger,
healthier patients with longer life expectancies,
assuming that the improved long-term patency offsets
the increased perioperative risks.

d
d

Choice of treatment
Recommendations.
1. The choice of treatment for patients with CMI should
be a shared decision-making process between the
patient and provider considering the risks/beneﬁts of
the various options and the patient’s goals of care.
(Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend endovascular revascularization as
the initial treatment for patients with CMI and suitable lesions. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend reserving open surgical revascularization for patients with CMI who have lesions that
are not amenable to endovascular therapy, endovascular failures, and a select group of younger, healthier
patients in which the long-term beneﬁts may offset
the increased perioperative risks. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Rationale and background
The choice of treatment for patients with CMI should
represent a shared decision-making process between
the patient and vascular care provider that involves a
thorough understanding of the associated risks/beneﬁts
of any intervention and incorporates the individual patient’s goals of care, including quality of life. The important outcome measures include both perioperative and

Detailed justiﬁcation
A systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature
was