
from the APCA should be construed as having fulﬁlled
the requirements for vascular laboratory credentialing if
the physicians have also demonstrated a commitment
to treating vascular disorders. The APCA requires a speciﬁc number of cases and experience before allowing

1344

Calligaro et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
May 2018

physicians to take the examination (see earlier section,
Training Requirements for Vascular Surgery Trainees).
Vascular surgeons who completed an ACGMEapproved vascular surgery training program since 2014
are required to obtain an RPVI certiﬁcate to become
board eligible and therefore are qualiﬁed to have privileges for interpretation of noninvasive vascular laboratory
studies because they also have fulﬁlled criteria of thorough training in treating vascular disease. We recommend that other specialists follow these same
guidelines. The SVS ﬁrmly recommends that physicians
not be allowed to interpret noninvasive vascular laboratory studies, even if the candidate passes the
examination, unless the applicant also has completed
or is in the process of completing a residency or fellowship dedicated to the comprehensive management of
vascular disease, such as vascular surgery, vascular medicine, cardiology, or radiology. This additional requirement prohibits physicians who do not have thorough
training in the diagnosis and treatment of vascular disorders from being allowed to interpret these studies.
Obtaining certiﬁcation from the American Society of
Neuroimaging is acceptable for physicians who wish to
interpret extracranial and intracranial examinations only.
The SVS, in agreement with The Joint Commission standards, believes that the decision to grant or to deny hospital privileges in vascular surgery to new applicants or to
those with established practices, irrespective of specialty,
should be an objective evidence-based process.
A summary of guidelines for hospital privileges in
vascular and endovascular surgery is provided in Table III.

REFERENCES
1. Calligaro KD, Toursarkissian B, Clagett GP, Towne J,
Hodgson K, Moneta G, et al. Guidelines for hospital privileges
in vascular and endovascular surgery: recommendations of
the Society for Vascular Surgery. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:1-5.

2. Bashore TM, Balter S, Barac A, Byrne JG, Cavendish JJ,
Chambers