grade 1) or
weak, also called conditional (grade 2) according to the
certainty of the evidence, the balance between desirable
and undesirable effects, patient values and preferences,
and other decisional factors. Grade 1 recommendations
are meant to identify practices for which the beneﬁt
clearly outweighs the risk and can be adopted as a standard of care. Grade 2 recommendations are made when
the beneﬁts and risks are more closely matched or less
certain; a situation in which shared decision-making is
critical. A detailed explanation of the GRADE approach
has been previously presented to the vascular surgery
community.19,20 The committee reached consensus for

all the recommendations and the level of supporting
evidence.
Evidence synthesis
The committee commissioned several systematic reviews, which will be reported separately in a document
titled “Society for Vascular Surgery Technical Review Supporting Guidelines on the Management of Carotid Artery
Disease.“14 The protocols and inclusion criteria for the reviews were determined a priori through collaboration
between the committee and the Mayo Clinic EvidenceBased Practice Center. The questions selected for the
present guidelines were speciﬁed using the PICO (population, intervention, comparison, outcomes) framework
and chosen based on the daily clinical dilemmas
encountered by patients and surgeons in practice.
Patient-important outcomes were chosen for decisionmaking.21 Meta-analyses were conducted when
appropriate.
To make the guidelines more practical and helpful to
clinicians, the committee drafted a second document
to provide the implementation details and facilitate
adoption and operationalization of the recommendations.22 The implementation document is not an SVS
guideline and should be considered as best practice
identiﬁed by the committee based on their knowledge
of the reported data and their clinical expertise.
Evidence to decision framework
The guideline committee considered patient values
and preferences and the feasibility and acceptability
of the recommended interventions. The availability of
surgical expertise and institutional experience were
also factors that were considered when making the
recommendations. Stroke prevention was considered
the most critical outcome across all guideline questions, and the overall certainty of the evidence was
dependent on the certainty for this outcome. The
guideline committee made strong recommendations
for the third question (timing of revascularization)
despite the variable certainty of the direct evidence,
based on additional indirect evidence and by placing
