 suitable lesions. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend reserving open surgical revascularization for patients with CMI who have lesions that are not
amenable to endovascular therapy, endovascular failures, and a select group of younger, healthier patients
for whom the long-term beneﬁts may offset the
increased perioperative risks. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Preoperative evaluation
Recommendations.
1. Patients undergoing revascularization for CMI should
be optimized from a medical standpoint before intervention, although their preoperative evaluation should
be expedited. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend obtaining a CTA to delineate the
vascular anatomy before any revascularization. A
catheter-based arteriogram may be an alternative if
the anatomy is not clear on the CTA. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Endovascular revascularization
Recommendation.
1. We suggest using balloon-expandable covered intraluminal stents for the treatment of the MAOD in patients with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Open surgical revascularization
Recommendation.
1. The choice of open surgical revascularization for CMI
should be determined by anatomy, comorbidities,
prior interventions, and provider preference. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
Surveillance and remediation
Recommendations.
1. Patients undergoing revascularization for CMI should be
educated and counseled about recurrent symptoms
owing to the high rate of recurrence. (Ungraded Good
Practice Statement)

2. Patients should be followed in the outpatient setting
after revascularization for CMI. A possible follow-up
schedule includes within 1 month of the procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then annually thereafter. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
3. We suggest surveillance with mesenteric DUS examination to identify recurrent stenoses after revascularization for CMI. A possible ultrasound surveillance
schedule includes within 1 month of the procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then
annually. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality