 of pedal Doppler waveforms in combination with ABI
and toe pressure (TP) or TBI. Non-emergency invasive
procedures, such as elective surgery, may be indicated in
people with diabetes without a DFU with the intent to
address painful foot conditions. Particularly in those with
peripheral neuropathy,64 prophylactic procedures could
be considered to address risk factors for foot ulceration,
such as foot deformity and elevated localised plantar
pressures. Prior to any surgical procedure on the foot in a
person with diabetes, PAD status should be established,
and this ﬁnding should contribute to determination of
the suitability of an individual for the procedure. The
decision to perform the elective surgery should be made
in a shared decision making process that will be inﬂuenced by balancing the beneﬁt of the operation against
the potential harm, such as the risk of poor wound
healing based on the non-invasive assessments.
As discussed above, bedside testing generally has moderate ability to diagnose PAD or to exclude this disease in
people with diabetes mellitus. Any abnormal test result
should be considered indicative of PAD. Therefore, it is
suggested this recommendation will reduce the risk of
undiagnosed severe PAD which would potentially negatively affect post-surgical outcomes and it is likely that
people will value this approach. Feasibility and the
impact of these tests on resource use are discussed in
Recommendation 4. No randomised controlled trials
(for ethical reasons) or observational studies of sufﬁcient
quality have been performed on the added value of

1112

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

performing bedside tests prior to any surgical procedure
in the foot. Given the indirect evidence discussed above,
the major clinical implications of missing the diagnosis
of PAD and the limited harm and additional costs, a
Best Practice Statement was made.

PROGNOSIS
Clinical question. In a person with diabetes, suspected
PAD, and a foot ulcer or gangrene, which non-invasive
bedside tests, alone or in combination, at any time
point (including after revascularisation procedures), predict DFU healing, healing after minor amputation, and
major amputation?

Recommendation 6
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene,
consider performing ankle pressures and ankle brachial index
