
Venous Forum (AVF) formed a committee of experts in
venous disease to develop evidence-based clinical practice
guidelines regarding strategies of early thrombus removal
for acute DVT. The committee commissioned the conduct
of a systematic review and meta-analysis of the relevant
literature to inform their recommendations. In contrast to
previously published systematic reviews,20 this review was
confined to patients with iliofemoral DVT and excluded
systemic and locoregional thrombolytic infusion (eg, pedal
vein infusion14) while including surgical thrombectomy.
The results of this systematic review,19 published separately
in this issue of the Journal of Vascular Surgery, forms the
basis of these practice guidelines. When necessary, as for
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and inferior vena cava
(IVC) filtration, this review was supplemented by less rigorous data, including those from pooled analyses and case
series.
The recommendations for early thrombus removal are
made according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach21-22 (Table). According to this system, there are
two components to any treatment recommendation: the
first is a designation of the strength of the recommendation
(strong: 1; or weak: 2) based on the degree of confidence
that the recommendation will provide more benefit than
harm; the second is an evaluation of the level of evidence (A
to C) based on the confidence that the estimate of effect is
correct. The strength of a recommendation (1 or 2) reflects
the balance of benefits and risks, as well as cost to the health
care system:
● Grade 1 recommendations are those in which the

benefits of an intervention clearly outweigh its risk and
burdens. All well-informed patients would choose
such a treatment, and the physician can securely recommend it without a detailed knowledge of the underlying data.
● Grade 2 recommendations are weaker and reflect ther-

apies where the benefits and risks are uncertain or are
more closely balanced. For such interventions, patients
may choose different options based on their underlying values.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

1452 Meissner et al

Table. Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach to treatment
recommendations