 which have greater radial strength and resistance to
crush. This allows for improved expansion and retention of
vessel diameter after stent placement.
The percutaneous approach to iliac disease can vary from
ipsilateral to contralateral groin to brachial, but one should be
certain that devices with an appropriate length are available
before initiating a procedure. If there is an expectation of
the brachial approach being used, longer delivery systems
should be available. When treating from the ipsilateral
femoral approach, one should be certain that placement of
the most distal stent will not be so close to the sheath access
to prohibit accurate delivery. Here a contralateral or brachial
approach is favored to allow placement of stents to the end of
the diseased segment, which may be to the inguinal ligament.
Treatment of bilateral iliac occlusive disease is indicated
in individuals with appropriate bilateral lesions and

symptoms. Outcomes with bilateral interventions appear to
be similar to those noted in individuals where a single side
is treated; however, it is likely that patency is modestly
reduced compared with unilateral interventions. Treatment
in the common and external iliac arteries appears also to
have similar outcomes. Use of uncovered stents across the
oriﬁce of the internal iliac artery will maintain adequate hypogastric artery perfusion in most instances, and it remains more
important to treat the full extent of the disease than to limit
coverage because of concern regarding stenting across the internal iliac artery origin. In situations where there is concern
for ﬂow preservation through a hypogastric artery, a kissing
stent technique can be used at this bifurcation to maintain
patency of both vessels; however, this is rarely necessary.
A key consideration in the treatment of iliac occlusive
disease is the extension of the disease into the femoral artery. Use of stents in the common femoral artery (CFA)
is not recommended because they are more likely to fracture or fail due to ﬂexion of the artery that occurs with
hip ﬂexion. If disease extends into the CFA, the use of a
hybrid approach combining femoral endarterectomy with
iliac stenting is a better alternative in most patients.
Covered stents have been used in the treatment of iliac
oc