 be established before PTA during
CAS.
2. Prestent PTA can be performed safely with small
diameter balloon to nominal pressure.
3. Post-PTA should only be used for patients with significant residual stenosis.
Stent selection.
Open closed cells. Depending on the density of the
struts, carotid stents can be classiﬁed into open vs closed
cells. Generally, a free cell area of more than 7 mm2 is
considered an open cell and is thought to leave larger
gaps uncovered. Closed-cell design stents have small
cell areas and may provide effective plaque coverage,
reducing the risk of debris embolization. However, they
are less conformable to the carotid anatomy and thus
cannot be used in tortuous arteries. In contrast, open cell
designs are more ﬂexible and can accommodate
tortuous carotid anatomy but have large cell sizes that
might increase risk of plaque protrusion and potential
embolization. Current evidence on speciﬁc stent design
remains controversial, but largely supports beneﬁts of
close cell design. One small randomized clinical trial of
40 patients showed no difference in embolization between open and close cell design based on TCD and
DWI-MRI evaluations.394 A meta-analysis by Kouvelos
et al395 found no difference in 30-day cerebrovascular
complications after CAS using open vs closed cell

designs. Results from the SVS Registry also found no
association between perioperative stroke and stent
type.396 By contrast, a multicenter study looking at CAS
free cell area of greater than 7.5 mm2 found a higher
stroke risk compared with less than 7.5 mm2, suggesting
closed cells are more protective of stroke than open
cells.397 A recent pooled analysis of 1557 patients from
three large randomized trials (EVA-3S, SPACE, and ICSS)
showed an independent association between closed-cell
design and reduced risk of periprocedural stroke or
death.398 However, in a systemic review and comprehensive meta-analysis of 33 studies (including 2 randomized trials), use of an open cell stent design in CAS
was associated with decreased risk of restenosis
compared