 be measured as well.
The diameter of the aorta can be precisely determined
with centerline measurements as errors of parallax caused
by curvature are virtually eliminated.63-66
Recommendation 5: We recommend routine use of
three-dimensional centerline reconstruction software
for accurate case planning and execution in TEVAR.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
MRA. MRA is not used for routine management of
thoracic aortic disease primarily because of the speed
and availability of CTA as well as ease of interpretation.
However, MRA can provide morphologic and blood
ﬂow information without use of iodinated contrast material or radiation exposure and therefore can play an
important role in the management of the thoracic aorta.
Traditional methods for non-contrast-enhanced MRA,
such as time-of-ﬂight sequences, are being replaced by
newer techniques, such as spin-echo and steady-state
free precession sequences.67 These provide high spatial
resolution but are limited in their characterization of

66S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

the aortic wall. Artifact can be present from embolization
coils or from certain stent graft metallic components.
Contrast-enhanced MRA is typically performed with the
administration of gadolinium, which is administrated intravenously with use of a power injector, with a dose of
0.1 mmol of gadolinium per kilogram of body weight. Images are acquired with a T1-weighted three-dimensional
spoiled gradient-recalled echo sequence, usually during
breath-hold. As with CTA, the relationship between
contrast material administration and image acquisition is
crucial. The source images can be reformatted in multiple
planes with maximum intensity projections and volume
rendering, and a three-dimensional centerline reconstruction can be generated using the MRA data set.68,69
Recommendation 6: We suggest contrast-enhanced
MRA for preoperative planning for patients with severe
allergy to iodinated contrast material. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). IVUS has become an
important adjunct in the endovascular treatment of the
thoracic aorta