 Evidence C (low to very low)
Rationale. In patients with large, clustered patterns of
varicose veins, transilluminated powered phlebectomy
remains an acceptable alternative treatment option
which requires fewer incisions and shorter treatment
times.
Evidence. Several studies have described the safety
and efﬁcacy of ambulatory phlebectomy.171,189,190 Transilluminated powered phlebectomy is a minimally invasive alternative treatment for varicose veins, it is
performed under general or local tumescent anesthesia,
combined with irrigated illumination and endoscopicpowered venous resection.191 Two RCTs concluded that
powered phlebectomy procedures are quicker and
require fewer incisions than traditional phlebectomy, but
a steep learning curve is expected.192,193 Chetter et al193
found, however that compared with ambulatory phlebectomy, ecchymosis (39% vs 25%; P < .001) and pain
were more frequent with powered phlebectomy and
reduced the early postoperative QOL. A meta-analysis of
Luebke and Brunkwall concluded that powered phlebectomy decreased the number of incisions, improved
mean cosmetic score and shortened the duration of the
procedure in patients with extensive varicosities. There
was less calf hematoma after hook phlebectomy and a
worse mean pain score after powered phlebectomy.11
7.2.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose tributaries, treatment of the tributaries should be performed even if the superﬁcial trunks are competent.
Consensus statement.
Rationale. In general, treatment for primary or recurrent varicose veins irrespective of axial competence has
been shown to be effective and indicated for patients
with symptomatic C2 disease.
Evidence. Surgical intervention for symptomatic varicose veins has been widely accepted as being an effective, appropriate therapy with good outcomes for pain
reduction and improvement in QOL. A Cochrane review
in 2004 compared treatments of varicose veins with
surgery vs sclerotherapy and concluded that there
was insufﬁcient evidence to preferentially recommend
the use of sclerotherapy or surgery.194 A systematic