igms.
Establishing minimum annual case volumes for every
open and endovascular procedure for vascular surgeons
or other interventionalists in clinical practice as a measure of competency is beyond the scope of the SVS at
this time, and other specialties agree with this position.2
Such guidelines for every arterial tree cannot be
defended with existing supporting data and would be
so subject to opinion that they would not be relevant.
The SVS recommends that hospitals take into account
board certiﬁcation and Maintenance of Certiﬁcation
(MOC), irrespective of specialty, along with guidelines
established by interventionalists practicing at a given
hospital during the appointment process. The specialists
performing both open surgical and endovascular procedures should also perform ongoing evaluation of outcomes of these interventions.

DEFINITION OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Vascular surgery is the specialty that deals with the
diagnosis and management of disorders of the arterial,
venous, and lymphatic systems, exclusive of intracardiac and intracranial vessels but including the thoracic
aorta. We wish to emphasize that a fully trained
“vascular surgeon” should be considered a vascular
specialist who performs traditional open surgery but
who also performs endovascular interventions and is
competent to treat vascular diseases with noninterventional means. A fully trained vascular surgeon must
have advanced knowledge and experience in the
following six areas:
1. Pathophysiology and natural history: Understanding of
the pathophysiology and the natural history of vascular
disorders to include atherosclerosis, intimal hyperplasia, nonatherosclerotic arterial disease, vasculitides,

thrombophilia and thrombotic disorders, venous and
lymphatic diseases, and vascular end-organ disorders.
2. Clinical management: Clinical evaluation of vascular
patients, including history, physical examination, and
medical management including pharmacotherapy
and risk factor reduction.
3. Vascular diagnostic testing and imaging: Noninvasive
and invasive diagnostic testing of vascular disease,
including but not limited to duplex ultrasound scanning, Doppler testing, plethysmography, magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography angiography,
contrast angiography and venography, intravascular
ultrasound, and other new and evolving imaging tools.
4. Open vascular surgery: Indications for and techniques
of open surgical treatment, including management of
their complications, for