 patient from undergoing
TEVAR, especially in the setting of general anesthesia.
Physical examination should also include a pulse evaluation, with special attention paid to the presence of
palpable femoral pulses for potential access sites to
deliver the TEVAR.
Diagnostic studies and imaging in symptomatic patients. Recommendation 1: In patients considered at
low or intermediate risk for a TAA based on their history
and physical examination ﬁndings, we suggest chest Xray as the ﬁrst radiographic test as it may identify an
alternative diagnosis for symptoms and may obviate
the need for additional aortic imaging. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
Recommendation 2: In patients considered at high risk
for symptomatic TAA or acute aortic syndrome, we
recommend urgent imaging, usually CTA because of its
speed and ease of use for preoperative planning. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and transesophageal echocardiography are also adequate for screening
to identify thoracic aortic disease but have limited applicability in certain scenarios (discussed further later).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Implementation remark: The choice of a screening
diagnostic study should be based on what is immediately available at that institution.

Practice Statement: If there is a high clinical suspicion
for an acute aortic process and the ﬁndings on the initial
study were normal, a second imaging study may be
considered while alternative diagnoses are further
explored. (Ungraded good practice statement)
Preoperative workup in patients undergoing open surgical and endovascular repair
The preoperative cardiac assessments should follow the
general recommendation of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA)
guidelines.2
Emergent or urgent repair. In the presence of thoracic
aortic disease with rupture, preoperative imaging should
be adequate to evaluate whether the patient’s anatomy
is amenable to endovascular repair. This typically consists
of CTA of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis (from above the
clavicles to the femoral heads) to evaluate the proximal
and distal seal zones and to evaluate for vascular access
options. If coverage of the LSA is planned, CTA through
the head and neck is useful to determine the anatomy
