Good Practice Statement

Quality of evidence

Ungraded

An established protocol for the management of ruptured AAA
is essential for optimal outcomes.
Level of recommendation

Good Practice Statement

Quality of evidence

Ungraded

We recommend implementing hypotensive hemostasis with
restriction of ﬂuid resuscitation in the conscious patient.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

B (Moderate)

We suggest that patients with ruptured AAA who require
transfer for repair be referred to a facility with an established
rupture protocol and suitable endovascular resources.
Level of recommendation

Good Practice Statement

Quality of evidence

Ungraded

Initial operative management. Regardless of the
nature of repair, proximal control of the aorta is a crucial
aspect of the initial part of the procedure. Indications for
an aortic occlusion balloon include circulatory collapse,
hemodynamic instability, and anatomic limitations that
prevent expeditious repair.451,466 A femoral artery
approach with use of a long sheath is preferred to a
brachial approach. The sheath may be advanced into the
supraceliac aorta to support the balloon and permit its
removal after endograft placement.466

42

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaikof et al

January 2018

In the hemodynamically unstable patient without
preoperative CT imaging, evaluation of the proximal
and distal sealing zones and device selection can be
based on intraoperative angiography, recognizing the
inability to assess the extent of mural thrombus, or
ideally intravascular ultrasound. Both bifurcated and
aortouni-iliac endografts have been used for emergent
EVAR.451,467-469 Although it is used less commonly, an
aortouni-iliac device may be helpful in the treatment
of an anatomically challenging AAA. The Nellix Endovascular Aneurysm Sealing System (Endologix, Irvine, Calif)
has also been proposed for treatment of ruptured
AAA.470,471
Role of EVAR. In an effort to improve outcomes for
patients presenting with symptomatic or ruptured
AAAs, the impact of urgent or emergent EVAR has
been recently evaluated.