 of major factors that
place a limb at risk for amputation. The proposed SVS
Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System
is based simply on grading each of the three major factors
(Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection [WIfI]). This classiﬁcation system is hereinafter referred to as SVS WIfI. It is
based on a scale from 0 to 3, where 0 represents none, 1
mild, 2 moderate, and 3 severe (Table II). This classiﬁcation represents a synthesis of multiple previously published
classiﬁcation schemes that merges systems focused on diabetic foot ulcers and pure ischemia models. A brief description of its derivation and underlying rationale follows. The
terms grades, classes, and stages as used in this document
are clariﬁed in Table III.

JUSTIFICATION FOR AN UPDATED
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM

THE SVS WIfI CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM

An improved understanding of the underlying disease
and advances in therapy, particularly endovascular procedures, has rendered existing classiﬁcation schemes obsolete
while simultaneously highlighting the need for a more
comprehensive system. The concept of a single dichotomous hemodynamic cutoff point for CLI no longer applies
to the majority of patients encountered in current clinical
practice; various degrees of ischemia may prove “critical”
depending on the overall status of the limb. It has become
clear that limb ischemia does not have sharp cutoff points
but consists of a gradual spectrum in the pattern of
a sigmoidal curve (Fig). Wound healing, thus, depends
not only on the degree of ischemia, but also on the extent
and depth of the wound and the presence and severity of
infection. Thus, some patients with moderate ischemia
may heal faster with revascularization or even require it
to heal large wounds, although they do not meet current

With respect to wound categorization, both the Fontaine14 and Rutherford8 classiﬁcations of lower extremity
ischemia lack sufﬁcient detail. DFU classiﬁcations such as
perfusion, extent/size, depth/tissue loss, infection, sensation (PEDIS),43 University of Texas (UT),34 variants
of sepsis, arteriopathy, denervation (SAD),37,38