 that reﬂux in the
below-knee GSV persists in all below-knee GSV branches
after proximal stripping or ablation, and these residual
varicose veins were not related to the presence of incompetent perforator veins. Therefore, there is little evidence
to support the treatment of incompetent perforator
veins in patients with CEAP 2 varicose veins. No study
evaluated patients with CEAP 2 varicose veins after
saphenous ablation to determine their impact on
incompetent perforator veins.
Strengths and limitations. The strengths of this
systematic review relate to a priori research design,
comprehensive search of multiple databases, and
collaboration with experts from SVS and AVF. One limitation relates to the high risk of bias in many included
studies. Another limitation is the small number of
studies included per key question, limiting the ability
to detect publication bias and exploring heterogeneity.
Our systematic review targeted patients with primary
varicose veins and indeed 88% of the included studies
have explicitly excluded patients deep venous
insufﬁciency, a previous DVT or a congenital anomaly.
Nevertheless, some studies may have included such
patients.

CONCLUSIONS
The current systematic review summarizes the evidence to support SVS/AVF/American Vein and
Lymphatic Society clinical practice guideline recommendations. The evidence supports duplex scanning for evaluation of patients with varicose veins and conﬁrms that
HL/S resulted in similar long-term saphenous vein
closure rates than EVLA and in better rates than RFA
and UGFS. Thermal interventions were associated with
inferior generic QoL scores than nonthermal interventions, but had a lower risk of recurrent incompetence
than UGFS. The ultimate recommendations in the guidelines should consider the information presented here as
well as other factors such as patients’ values and preferences, anatomic considerations of individual patients,
and surgical expertise.

1168

Farah et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
September 2022

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: MF, BH, PL, PG, MM
Analysis and interpretation: MF, ZW, MM
Data collection: MF, TN, MU, BH, MA, IS, LP
Writing the article: MF, PL