, Level I evidence is
often not available to guide physician practice. Nonetheless, the task force members determined that it was appropriate to make some recommendations in areas where they
could reach unanimous agreement. These recommendations should be taken as the best opinion of the task force
given current available data. As stated earlier, they may well
change in the future as therapy evolves and new data
emerge.
A. Acute neurologic syndromes
Acute neurologic syndromes can be divided in to several clinical categories: acute stroke, stroke in evolution,
and crescendo TIAs. The pathophysiology and concerns in
each category are somewhat different, as are the treatment
algorithms and outcomes.
Acute stroke is often associated with intracranial
thrombosis, although this is less common in patients with
the other two clinical presentations. As a consequence, a
major management goal is to identify those patients with
intracranial occlusion and to reperfuse the ischemic brain as
rapidly as possible. Therapy is primarily directed at the
intracranial occlusion. Although carotid bifurcation stenosis may be present, occlusion of the ICA in the neck is
unusual in patients who are candidates for intervention.
In contrast, patients with crescendo TIA, by definition,
have not had a significant volume of brain infarcted but do
have a significant amount of brain at risk from a very
unstable lesion with multiple small emboli or a large ischemic brain penumbra due to hemodynamic compromise
and poor cerebral autoregulation. In these cases attention is
directed at the source of symptoms, usually the carotid
bifurcation.
Patients with stroke in evolution occupy a middle
ground. Often there has been a permanent area of infarction, but the remaining ischemic penumbra is significant
and attention is directed at salvaging this ischemic area as
rapidly as possible.
In each of these clinical scenarios, expeditious clinical evaluation, brain imaging, and rapid evaluation of the
carotid bifurcation is important in optimizing results.
Brain imaging, most often by diffusion-weighted MRI,
allows a rapid assessment of the amount of brain infracted and the amount at risk, whereas CDUS imaging
can assess the status of the bifurcation. As will be discussed below, this information dictates the branch points
