i An update to this article is included at the end

EDITORIAL
Global Vascular Guidelines for patients with chronic
limb-threatening ischemia
The Global Vascular Guidelines (GVGs) published in this
month’s supplement of the Journal of Vascular Surgery1
are the most comprehensive clinical practice guidelines
ever published on the management of patients with
chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI). Combined
with a new systematic review and meta-analysis,2 these
documents represent 5 years of work by an international
team of vascular specialists, each with recognized expertise in peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The guidelines
considered evidence on all therapies currently available
throughout the world to treat this important global
problem and the end result is a monumental work of
exceptional quality.
CLTI, a new term used in the guidelines instead of critical limb ischemia, is deﬁned as advanced PAD with rest
pain, gangrene, or ulceration of >2 weeks duration. The
methodology used by the writing group is critical to its
acceptance–the authors met strict standards for conﬂict
of interest and used relevant data from peer-reviewed
journals, without industry involvement, to write the
recommendations. The guidelines are evidence-based,
many supported by systematic reviews and metaanalyses, and represent the research and consensus of
all important specialties: vascular surgery; interventional
radiology; vascular medicine; interventional cardiology;
and angiology, who treat patients with CLTI. As such, in
2019, these guidelines are the gold standard document
for the management of CLTI.
Edited by Michael S. Conte, Andrew W. Bradbury, and
Philippe Kolh and authored by 48 experts, this allinclusive, 123-page document is based on data from
676 references and includes 114 recommendations on
deﬁnition, risk factors, diagnosis, staging, strategies for
revascularization, medical, endovascular, and surgical
management, nonrevascularization treatments, amputations, postprocedural care, and surveillance of
patients with CLTI. Since important studies expected
to provide level 1 evidence on management of CLTI
are still being conducted in the U.S.3 and in England,4
only nine recommendations are strong (Grade I),
supported by a high level (A) of evidence. Still, the