 Vascular Surgery Clinical Practice
Guidelines for Management of Extracranial Cerebrovascular Disease.”112 Furthermore, a separate comprehensive
implementation document will address these issues in
further details and cover other important clinical issues
in extracranial cerebrovascular disease management.113
Strengths and limitations. The strength of this systematic review and meta-analyses includes following
rigorous procedures, such as selecting and appraising
studies by pairs of independent reviewers, the comprehensive search that included several databases, and
collaboration with content experts from the SVS. Clear
limitations of the evidence base are however present.
Comparative studies about the timing of carotid intervention after acute stroke and the optimal sequence of
intervention in patients with combined carotid and coronary disease are needed. The estimates in these comparisons were highly imprecise. Considering that
blinding of patients and surgeons is not feasible in
studies of carotid disease, we encourage the blinding of
outcome assessors and data analysts, which is possible
and highly desirable to decrease the risk of bias. Studies
that compare the outcomes and cost effectiveness of
carotid screening are also needed.

CONCLUSIONS
This systematic review supports the SVS clinical practice guidelines for commonly raised clinical scenarios in
the management of extracranial carotid disease. CEA
was superior to medical therapy in the long-term prevention of stroke/death over medical therapy. CEA was also
superior to transfemoral CAS in minimizing long-term
stroke/death for symptomatic low risk surgical patients.
CEA should optimally be performed between 2 and
14 days from the onset of acute stroke. This systematic review demonstrates that the presence of multiple risk factors increases the value of carotid screening.
Future clariﬁcation of some of these issues, particularly
with advances in medical therapy (including the use of
statins), might further impact the beneﬁt of medical
therapy. Additionally, analysis of current medical therapy
will be better understood vs carotid intervention once
several currently ongoing randomized trials (eg, CREST2,
SPACE2) are completed. Similarly, with the introduction
of transcarotid artery revascularization,114 the role of
CAS in treating both symptomatic/asymptomatic patients would need to be clariﬁed over the long-term.
Other larger studies regarding