aphylaxis to contrast materials.
Indications for carotid screening: High-risk groups
This is covered in the Clinical Practice Guidelines
document.3
Methods of measuring carotid stenosis
The degree of stenosis is still considered to be the
most critical parameter in determining who will beneﬁt
from carotid artery intervention for stroke prevention.
Accurately deﬁning the degree of stenosis is essential
to proper patient selection and management. As noted
earlier, duplex ultrasound examination is the most
widely used technique for evaluation of ICA stenosis.
Velocities and other hemodynamic parameters obtained from the duplex ultrasound examination are
used to infer degree of stenosis based upon validated
data in comparison to formal arteriography. In most
of the seminal trials comparing CEA with medical therapy, degree of stenosis was actually measured using
arteriography.26,28 There are several different methods
for doing so.

The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) method, also used in the ACAS trial,
measures the residual lumen at the point of greatest ICA
stenosis with the lumen of the normal distal cervical
ICA.51 Percent stenosis is calculated as: (1 e minimal residual lumen/normal distal cervical ICA diameter)  100.
However, an alternative method was used in the European Surgical Carotid Trial (ECST).37 The ECST technique
indexed minimal residual lumen to the diameter of the
carotid bulb (as opposed to the normal distal cervical
ICA). Both methods may have inherent inaccuracies.51
The ECST technique must use arteriographic images to
estimate the actual location of the carotid bulb wall
and the NASCET technique may calculate a negative
value for stenosis when minimal occlusive disease is present at the carotid bifurcation. Currently, the NASCET
method is more widely used and accepted.52 CTA has
been shown to be a reliable substitute to formal arteriography in this regard.53
Summary and recommendations
(See also Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3)
1. Duplex ultrasound examination preferably performed
in an accredited vascular laboratory is the initial diagnostic imaging of choice for evaluating the severity of
carotid sten