 However, the
Writing Committee considered there is likely to be
important variability in patient values due to the lack of
clear beneﬁt of one approach over the other.
Factors such as the severity of ischaemia and tissue loss
(e.g., WIfI staging) and patient suitability for the procedure and presence of comorbidities, as well as the availability of expertise and costs of the procedures (which
may vary between locations and countries) drives decision making in relation to the type of procedure considered appropriate with these factors also impacting.
Several studies have noted that only a minority of foot
and ankle wounds in their series corresponded to one
angiosome. Kret et al.125 found that only 36% of wounds
in their series corresponded to a single distinct angiosome. Similarly, Aerden et al.126 found it difﬁcult to allocate people to direct revascularisation versus indirect
revascularisation due to the presence of multiple
wounds and large wounds that had more than one
angiosome supplying them. In such cases it is the
opinion of the Writing Committee that the best quality
artery should preferentially be targeted. Many clinicians

will consider attempting to treat the second vessel supplying the wound as well, although there is a lack of evidence to support this approach.7
Clinical question
In people with DFU, do revascularisation perfusion outcomes predict healing, major amputation, or the need
for further revascularisation?

Recommendation 21
In a person with diabetes and either a foot ulcer or gangrene
who has undergone revascularisation, objectively assess adequacy of perfusion e.g., using non-invasive bedside testing.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
There are few available data examining the predictive
capacity of post-revascularisation perfusion measures
for healing or amputation outcomes or for the need for
further revascularisation in people with diabetes. However, adequate perfusion is essential for wound healing and

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1123

Volume 78, Number 5

Recommendation 22
A person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and either a
foot ulcer or gangrene should be treated by a multidisciplinary team as part of a comprehensive care plan.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

clinical