

Judgment

How substantial are desirable effects of the strategy?

Surgical stripping reduces pain and
discomfort

Probably
beneﬁcial

How substantial are the undesirable anticipated effects?

No reduction in VTE

Low

Do the desirable effects outweigh the undesirable effects?

Probably in select circumstances

Probably yes

What is the overall certainty of the evidence of effects?

Low with no RCTs

Low

How large are the resource requirements associated with the
intervention?

Moderate

Low

How large is the incremental cost relative to the net beneﬁt?

Moderate

Unknown

What would be the effect on health inequalities?

None

None

Is the opinion acceptable to key stakeholders?

Yes

Unknown

Is the opinion feasible to implement?

Yes

Yes

RCT, Randomized controlled trial; VTE, venous thromboembolism.

52

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

detected events in asymptomatic patients is unclear
and requires further study. Data from at least one RCT
of PEM demonstrated no difference in outcome among
patients with ultrasound-detected postprocedural
thrombotic events regardless of whether they were
treated with anticoagulants or not.206
11.2. Pharmacological thromboprophylaxis
11.2.1. For high-risk patients undergoing endovenous
ablation, we suggest pharmacological thrombo
prophylaxis.
GUIDELINE: Grade of recommendation: 2 (weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. This guideline is consistent with that previously suggested by the AVF/SVS.233 Other guidelines
include those from the UK Royal Society of Medicine
which suggest preoperative assessment of all patients for
both VTE and bleeding risk with pharmacological prophylaxis for 7 to 14 days in intermediate-risk patients and
for 4 to 6 weeks in high-risk patients.247 The European
Society for Vascular Surgery recommends VTE risk
assessment in all patients with consideration of individualized thromboprophylaxis (Class IIa, Level B).56
Although the weight of the evidence does suggest
some beneﬁt to pharmacological thromboprophylaxis,
the evidence is difﬁcult to generalize due