 3% to 5% of all stenoses identified in
hemodialysis accesses.100 Stenosis at the arterial anastomosis is the most common reason for inadequate arterial
inflow. Arterial anastomotic stenosis usually occurs as a
result of a technical error or neointimal hyperplasia. The
next most common location for arterial stenosis is an orificial stenosis of the subclavian artery, most commonly on
the left and caused by atherosclerosis. These can usually be
studied by retrograde puncture of the access, navigating the
diagnostic catheter retrograde into the aorta. Alternatively,
a standard transfemoral approach can be used. Stenoses
⬎50% of the diameter of the artery that are associated with
access failure should be treated with angioplasty. Stenting
in addition to angioplasty can be used for subclavian orificial stenoses. Before management of the arterial stenosis, an
evaluation of the access viability and stratification of the risk
of the patient to undergo such procedure should be
undertaken.

18S Sidawy et al

4. Poor venous outflow. With increasing pressure to
create primary autogenous accesses, there is growing concern that surgeons will use “inadequate veins” to achieve
target rates of autogenous access placement. A small or
diseased vein may result in poor venous flow that can be
associated with failed maturation, early failure, and focal
areas of stenosis or dilation, or both. Definitions of vein
adequacy will be described elsewhere in this document.
However, once the autogenous access has been placed, a
policy of aggressive re-evaluation should be performed to
maintain access functionality as described in the surveillance section. Revision of a functioning autogenous access
to a more proximal arterial and venous location is another
strategy to optimize use of vein segments that have matured, while excluding diseased segments.
Poor venous outflow can also be caused by early anastomotic stenoses, which are technical errors, usually manifest as early thrombosis, but they can also lead to nonfunctionality or failure to mature in autogenous accesses. When
diagnosed ⱕ7 days of access construction, surgical revision
should be performed. When such st