operative evaluation. Establishing functional AV
access requires careful preoperative evaluation and planning. This process starts by early identification of individuals with renal insufficiency for prompt surgical consultation
to select the best extremity and site for an autogenous AV
access. A very important determinant of the success of AV
access is an appropriate and detailed preoperative history
and examination, followed by vessel mapping.
Patient history specific to vascular access selection. Several historical factors have been associated with increased
difficulty in establishing a functional AV access and partic-

6S Sidawy et al

ularly autogenous AV access. These include diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, severe congestive heart
failure, advanced age, and female gender.29,39-40 However,
recent reports have demonstrated that successful outcomes
are possible in several of these groups.41,42 All patients
should be viewed as potential candidates for autogenous
AV access construction, although some individuals with a
difficult access extremity will require more inventive or
complex access procedures.42-44 Repeated thrombotic
events may prompt screening for a hypercoagulable state.45
Several risk factors such as homocystine and factor VIII are
commonly elevated in patients with renal failure. Chronic
anticoagulation with warfarin carries significant risk in these
patients and should probably be considered only for those
individuals with a clearly defined hypercoagulable
state.46,47 Clopidogrel is frequently used in the dialysis
population. In prosthetic accesses, it was associated with a
higher rate of bleeding and no statistical improvement in
graft patency.48-50
The patient’s surgical history, such as failed access
procedures, PICCs, pacemakers, defibrillators, arterial
catheters, cardiac surgery, or trauma often play an important role in AV access planning. Consideration of the
patient’s dominant arm or incapacitation of one extremity
from a previous stroke may influence, but not dictate, an
AV access decision. Placement of an autogenous AV access
is particularly important in patients with chronic infections,
recurrent skin diseases, and immunosuppression. Finally,
the patient’s overall medical condition, social support
structure, and life expectancy should be considered when
considering long-term vascular access.
Physical examination specific to vascular access selection