 meta-analyses have consistently reported beneﬁcial effects of TEVAR over open repair, especially in the
setting of rupture. Many of the strongest recommendations from this guideline focus on imaging before, during, or after
TEVAR and include the following:
In patients considered at high risk for symptomatic TAA or acute aortic syndrome, we recommend urgent imaging,
usually computed tomography angiography (CTA) because of its speed and ease of use for preoperative planning. Level
of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
If TEVAR is being considered, we recommend ﬁne-cut (#0.25 mm) CTA of the entire aorta as well as of the iliac and
femoral arteries. CTA of the head and neck is also needed to determine the anatomy of the vertebral arteries. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
We recommend routine use of three-dimensional centerline reconstruction software for accurate case planning and
execution in TEVAR. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
We recommend contrast-enhanced computed tomography scanning at 1 month and 12 months after TEVAR and
then yearly for life, with consideration of more frequent imaging if an endoleak or other abnormality of concern is
detected at 1 month. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
Finally, based on our review, in patients who could undergo either technique (within the criteria of the device’s instructions for use), we recommend TEVAR as the preferred approach to treat elective DTA aneurysms, given its reduced
morbidity and length of stay as well as short-term mortality. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
Given the beneﬁts of TEVAR, treatment using a minimally invasive approach is largely based on anatomic eligibility
rather than on patient-speciﬁc factors, as is the case in open TAA repair. Thus, for isolated lesions of the DTA, TEVAR
should be the primary method of repair in both the elective and emergent setting based on improved short-term and
midterm mortality as well as decreased morbidity. (J Vasc Surg 2021;73:55S-83