 weaker
Grade 2 guidelines.
Although trial methodology is related to the quality of
the evidence, clinicians are actually most interested in reliable estimates of the benefits and harms associated with a
therapy.21 For high-quality evidence, the effects of therapy
(beneficial or ill) are precise, and further research is unlikely
to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. In
contrast, the estimated effect provided by poor-quality
evidence is unclear and likely to change as better quality
evidence becomes available.
● Grade A, or high-quality evidence, usually comes from

well-executed randomized trials yielding consistent results, and occasionally, observational studies with large
effects.
● Grade B, or moderate-quality evidence, comes from
randomized clinical trials with important limitations,
inconsistent randomized trials, and strong observational studies.
● Grade C, or low-quality evidence, includes flawed
randomized trials and most observational studies as
well as data from case reports, descriptive studies, and
expert opinion.
In making recommendations, committee members
considered the available evidence, patients’ values and preferences, availability of surgical expertise, and resource allocation. A systematic process25 was followed whereby initial
guidelines were drafted and submitted, together with the
systematic review,19 to each panel member for comment.
Comments were incorporated into the guidelines and resubmitted to the panel members for further revision or
acceptance. The process was repeated until there was uniform agreement on the text of the final recommendations.

Occasional differences regarding the grade of recommendation were resolved through additional review of the
available data, discussion, and formal vote. On adoption of
the final manuscript, there was a maximum of one dissenting opinion regarding the grade of recommendations 2.1
and 6.2.
GUIDELINES
1. Precision in the diagnosis of DVT
1.1. We recommend use of precise anatomic terminology to characterize the most proximal extent of
venous thrombosis as involving the iliofemoral veins,
with or without extension into the inferior vena cava;
the femoropopliteal veins; or isolated to the calf veins in
preference to simple characterization of a thrombus as
proximal or distal (Grade 1A). Based on perceived differences in outcomes, DVT has historically been considered
to involve the proximal veins or as isolated to the distal or
calf veins. On the basis