 Level
of Evidence B).
9. Perioperative antithrombotic management of CAS patients should include dual-antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and ticlopidine or clopidogrel. Dual-antiplatelet
therapy should be initiated at least 3 days before CAS
and continued for 1 month, and aspirin therapy
should be continued indefinitely (GRADE 1, Level of
Evidence C).
IV. TECHNICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
CAROTID INTERVENTIONS
The efficacy of carotid interventions depends on minimizing perioperative complication rates. This involves ap-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

propriate risk factor assessment and patient selection,
perioperative therapy, and performance of a technically
excellent operation. Perioperative therapy and medical
management have been discussed in the previous sections.
Specific recommendations on techniques to reduce complications of CEA and CAS are beyond the scope of this report
and can be found elsewhere.164,165 However, some general
recommendations can be made regarding the conduct of
CEA and CAS.
A. Carotid endarterectomy
Among the variables that have been studied to determine their effect on the outcome of CEA are local vs
regional anesthesia, routine vs selective use of shunts, monitoring of brain function during the procedure, routine
patch closure after endarterectomy, and completion imaging. Although several authors have suggested that use of
regional or local anesthesia is associated with a reduced
incidence of perioperative hemodynamic changes and cardiac events, a prospective randomized trial166 and systematic review of the literature167 failed to show any difference
between the two anesthetic approaches.
An abundant literature exists on the indications identifying patients at risk of flow-related ischemia during CEA
and the role of shunting in reducing this complication.
Factors associated with increased risk of cerebral ischemia
during carotid cross-clamping, and therefore the increased likelihood that a shunt will be needed, during CEA, include recent stroke, contralateral carotid occlusion, and
symptoms suggestive of hemodynamic cerebral insufficiency.168,169 Despite extensive study on the routine or
selective use of shunts and cerebral monitoring during
CEA, no clear benefit of one approach over the other has
emerged.170
The routine use of