 with adverse outcomes among hemodialysis
patients, there is ready consensus that patients with CKD
should be referred for autogenous access placement well
before the initiation of dialysis. However, scant information
is available to suggest exactly how far in advance of the need
for dialysis and when in relation to their level of renal
function and course of their CKD patients should be referred for initial AV access construction. Consequently,
although there is broad agreement among different national guidelines that timely referral for autogenous access
construction is important, specific recommendations are
opinion-based and vary considerably, as indicated by various published guidelines around the world.8,10,11,36,37,38
Some are summarized below:
United States KDOQI guidelines.11
I. Guideline 1: Patient preparation for permanent hemodialysis access:
1.3. Patients should have a functional permanent access at
the initiation of dialysis therapy.
● 1.3.1. A fistula should be placed at least 6 months

before the anticipated start of hemodialysis (HD)
treatments. This timing allows for access evaluation
and additional time for revision to ensure a working
fistula is available at initiation of dialysis therapy. (B)
● 1.3.2. A graft should, in most cases, be placed at least

3 to 6 weeks before the anticipated start of HD ther-

Sidawy et al 5S

apy. Some newer graft materials may be cannulated
immediately after placement. (B)
And these guidelines also stated:11
II. Clinical practice recommendations for guideline 1:
patient preparation for permanent hemodialysis access.
● 1.3. Patients with CKD stage 5 should be educated on
the risks and benefits associated with catheters and strongly
encouraged to allow the evaluation for and creation of a
fistula for long-term access when appropriate. Such discussions with the patient should be initiated months before the
anticipated start of dialysis therapy.
The FFBI. Referral to surgeon for evaluation for access by stage 4 CKD (GFR ⬍30), with placement of AVF
soon thereafter (GFR 20 to 30), or based on progression of
renal disease.8,10
British Renal Association. The following is stated
under guideline 7-V