 underlying data. In contrast, for grade 2
or weak recommendations, the beneﬁts and risks will be
more balanced or uncertain; thus, different patients could
choose different treatment options according to their
values and preference. The physician must be familiar
with the underlying data before making such a recommendation and should counsel patients appropriately. The present guidelines have used the word “recommend” for grade
1 or strong recommendations and the word “suggest” for
grade 2 or weak recommendations. It should also be recognized that, in most cases, guidelines will be developed from
the results of studies of average patients and that a deviation from the guidelines could be necessary under unusual
circumstances.
The committee also made several speciﬁc technical
remarks to facilitate adoption and implementation of
the new updated guidelines and several ungraded
good practice statements.30 Because a new systematic
review of these remarks and good practice statements
could not be performed, these were based on the committee’s clinical expertise, knowledge of the literature,
and studies that had not met the criteria to be included
in the systematic review. Some of these statements
were adopted from the 2011 guidelines, if new information was not available.20 The present document used
the terminology established in the updates of the
CEAP classiﬁcations,15,31 the Vein Glossary,32 the VEINTERM document,33 and “the 2020 appropriate use
criteria for chronic lower extremity venous disease”16
(Supplementary Table I, online only).
Evidence to decision framework. Evidence to decision
framework tables that addressed the decision criteria
were constructed for each recommendation.34 These
tables address the balance of the beneﬁts and harm,
certainty of the evidence, patient values, feasibility,
and acceptability of the recommended actions
(Supplementary Tables II-VI, online only). Patient preferences regarding the relative importance of different
aspects of their care vary greatly and must be considered when evaluating treatment approaches. In a
pre-evaluation survey of 111 patients from the United
Kingdom, most of the patients (56%) were not concerned about missing work, and the importance of
postoperative discomfort and risk of recurrence varied.35 Because 80% of the patients reported that their

236

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular