 of systemic blood
pressure monitoring is generally recommended in the
initial postoperative period.417 Hypotension should be
treated initially with ﬂuid administration to achieve a
euvolemic state. If hypotension persists without other hemodynamic causes, blood pressure support with an
intravenous infusion of phenylephrine is generally recommended.417 Vasoconstrictors can typically be weaned
within 24 hours after surgery.
Postoperative hypertension is generally treated with
intravenous sodium nitroprusside. 417 Associated
myocardial ischemia should be treated as appropriate. Most patients can resume their preoperative
oral antihypertensive medications within 24 hours
following surgery, and this often reduces the need
for
additional
intravenous
pharmacological
management. 417
Summary and recommendations for the management of postoperative hemodynamic instability after
CEA.
1. Signiﬁcant postoperative hypertension or hypotension should be evaluated carefully by appropriate hemodynamic monitoring during the initial post-CEA
period.
2. Postoperative hypotension without other obvious hemodynamic etiologies should be treated with intravenous vasoconstrictors, typically phenylephrine, to
achieve a normal blood pressure until hypotension
resolves.
3. Postoperative hypertension should be treated with
intravenous
vasodilators,
typically
sodium

nitroprusside, to achieve a normal blood pressure until hypertension resolves.
4. Selected patients with signiﬁcant hemodynamic
instability post-CEA should be carefully monitored
for associated complications including myocardial
ischemia and ICH.
Post-CAS hemodynamic depression
Hypotension with bradycardia is not uncommon after
CAS owing to stretching of the carotid baroreceptors with
angioplasty and stenting. This complication is increased
four-fold with poststent balloon dilatation.390 Therefore,
careful monitoring of the patient’s blood pressure and
heart rate is necessary. An arterial pressure monitor connected to the intervention sheath or a separate arterial
line allows for continuous blood pressure monitoring.366
Hemodynamic depression can increase stroke risk owing
to cerebral hypoperfusion in general and inadequate ﬂow
reversal in TCAR speciﬁcally. Atropine (