ly deﬁned.
PAD primarily results from atherosclerotic occlusion
of the arteries supplying the lower extremity. Consequently, management of asymptomatic PAD should be
directed at accepted risk factor modiﬁcation for patients
with atherosclerosis. Pharmacologic strategies with
proven beneﬁt for symptomatic PAD have been empirically applied to the treatment of the asymptomatic PAD
population. However, as noted below, certain pharmacologic interventions have failed to show beneﬁt in the
asymptomatic population, and others await veriﬁcation.
Nonetheless, accepted preventive strategies for atherosclerosis are appropriate for asymptomatic disease and
for IC.
Smoking cessation. PAD severity has been shown to
correlate to the extent of cigarette smoking.53 In a broad
sample of PAD patients, including w27% who were
asymptomatic, a community-based intervention (“stop
smoking, keep walking”) increased maximal walking distance and frequency of recreational ambulation.54

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

8S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Antiplatelet therapy. The Aspirin for Asymptomatic
Atherosclerosis Trial55 randomized 3350 patients with
asymptomatic PAD to treatment with enteric-coated aspirin
(100 mg) or placebo. During 8 years of follow-up, no difference in vascular event rates was noted. However, this trial
used an epidemiologic method of ABI determination in
which the lower of the ankle pressures was used to calculate
the ABI. Thus, the individuals in this study might not be
fully representative of the universe of PAD patients with a
greater burden of disease. At present, the beneﬁt of antiplatelet therapy for patients with asymptomatic PAD and no
other clinical cardiovascular disease is unknown.
Statin therapy. The Heart Protection Study established the protective effects of statin therapy in reducing
mortality and cardiovascular events among individuals with
PAD.56 However, asymptomatic PAD patients were not
speciﬁcally included unless they met other criteria, such as
diabetes, hypertension, or other history of clinical cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease. In addition to reducing
cardiovascular event rates, statin use has been associated with
improved lower extremity functioning.57 This improvement
