 although

Conte and Pomposelli et al 13S

not as great as those achieved with supervised exercise.
Mouser et al113 found that patients completing a homebased exercise program demonstrated improvement in
the initial claudication distance and absolute claudication
distances, although less than what would be expected in
a supervised program. Unfortunately, 47% of those not
completing the program dropped out by not returning
for their follow-up appointment.
Providing patients with regular feedback on their progress and results may improve compliance with home-based
programs. In one study, providing patients engaged in a
home-based 12-week exercise program of intermittent
walking to nearly maximal claudication pain with a step
monitor to quantify their progress and results achieved
the same level of patient adherence and increased claudication time and peak walking time to a similar degree as a supervised exercise program.114
Supplements to an exercise program. All exercise
programs for treatment of IC, as noted above, should
include atherosclerotic risk factor modiﬁcation and best
medical management. Interventional therapies, percutaneous or open, can also be viewed as a supplement to an
exercise program. Conversely, exercise therapy can be
used as a supplement to interventional procedures.
Angioplasty and stenting has been studied as an alternative to exercise therapy for IC and as a supplement to exercise therapy for IC. A systematic review examined the
efﬁcacy of catheter-based techniques as an alternative or
as an adjunct to exercise therapy for treatment of IC.115
The end points evaluated in the trials reviewed were mostly
walking distances and QoL parameters. The authors
concluded that the effectiveness of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and supervised exercise training were
generally equivalent; however, despite similar end points in
the trials, pooling of data was impossible due to marked
heterogeneity of the data and only one of the nine randomized trials was of high quality.
The 6-month results of the CLEVER trial were reported in 2012.74 The CLEVER trial randomized 111 patients with IC due to aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD) to
one of three treatments: optimal medical care, optimal
medical care plus supervised exercise, or optimal medical
care plus stent