 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.2 In patients with ruptured CAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies who are stable, we recommend treatment with open surgical or appropriate
endovascular methods based on the patient’s anatomy
and underlying clinical condition. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
3.3 For the elective treatment of CAA, we suggest using
an endovascular intervention if it is anatomically feasible.
However, elective treatment may appropriately involve
open surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods
of intervention, depending on the patient’s anatomy
and underlying clinical condition. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
3.4 To determine the need for revascularization of the
celiac artery and its branches in treating CAA, we suggest
evaluating the status of the superior mesenteric artery,
gastroduodenal artery, and other relevant collateral circulation, which must be carefully documented on preoperative CTA or angiography. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
4.1 We suggest screening patients with CAAs for other
arterial aneurysms. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.1 In patients in whom a CAA is being observed with a
nonoperative or noninterventional approach, we suggest
annual surveillance with CTA scans to assess for growth

6S

Chaer et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
July Supplement 2020

in size. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.2: After endovascular intervention for CAAs, we suggest periodic surveillance with appropriate imaging
studies to assess for the possibility of endoleak or aneurysm reperfusion that could lead to a continued risk of
aneurysm growth or rupture. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
Gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms. 1.1: In patients who are thought to have gastric or gastroepiploic
artery aneurysms, we recommend computed tomography angiography (CTA