) daily for 3 weeks
vs no compression after a single session of liquid
sclerotherapy. The outcomes were compared on the
basis of a patient satisfaction analysis and a quantitative evaluation of photographs taken before the procedure and at a mean of 52 days after sclerotherapy
by two blinded expert reviewers. Wearing compression
stockings of 23 to 32 mm Hg for 3 weeks enhanced
the efﬁcacy of sclerotherapy by improving vessel

disappearance. Three weeks of continuous compression led to the best results, although even 3 days of
compression resulted in greater improvement
compared with no compression. Compression also
led to a statistically signiﬁcant reduction in hyperpigmentation after sclerotherapy.44
Two studies compared thigh-high compression
stockings vs bandaging after liquid sclerotherapy. The
ﬁrst was an RCT by Scurr et al.45 Efﬁcacy was evaluated
on the basis of a need for successive injections, complications of treatment, and patient satisfaction. In the
patients receiving stockings, 144 of 156 injections were
successful compared with 117 of 147 in the bandaged
group. The incidence of superﬁcial vein phlebitis
and thrombosis was also reduced in the stocking
group. In a second study of high-compression stockings alone by Shouler and Runchman,46 it was
concluded that bandaging after sclerotherapy was
not required if high-compression stockings were going
to be used.
Nootheti et al35 looked at results of sclerotherapy after
3 weeks of graduated compression with class I
(20-30 mm Hg) stockings compared with 1 week of class
II (30-40 mm Hg) compression stockings. This was a
small study with 29 patients being treated for reticular
and telangiectatic veins. One leg was assigned to wear
a class II stocking for 1 week, and the contralateral leg
was assigned to 3 weeks of class I graduated compression. Pigmentation and bruising after sclerotherapy
were signiﬁcantly less in the group with 3 weeks of class
I graduated compression.
Fentem et al47 studied healthy volunteers comparing
bandaging using a large ﬂat compression pad