 be secondary to blood
flow changes distal to carotid occlusion, which may increase
the risk of lacunar infarcts in those with small vessel disease.
However, Kakkos et al60 reported a higher stroke rate of
4.4% vs 1.3% in patients with 60% to 79% clinically asymptomatic stenosis if a silent infarct was present. Carotid
screening is recommended in patients with asymptomatic
infarctions.
● Recommendations for the use of carotid bifurcation imaging
1. Imaging of the cervical carotid artery is recommended
in all patients with symptoms of carotid territory ischemia. This recommendation is based on the significant
incidence of clinically relevant carotid stenosis in this
patient group and the efficacy of CEA for clinically
significant lesions in reducing overall stroke (GRADE 1,
Level of Evidence A).
2. Imaging should be strongly considered for patients who
present with amaurosis fugax, evidence of retinal artery
embolization on funduscopic examination, or asymptomatic cerebral infarction, and are candidates for CEA.
This recommendation is based on the intermediate
stroke risk in this group of patients and the efficacy of
CEA in reducing risk of subsequent stroke (GRADE 1,
Level of Evidence A).
3. Routine screening is not recommended to detect clinically asymptomatic carotid stenosis in the general population. Screening is not recommended for presence of a
neck bruit alone without other risk factors. This recommendation is based on the low prevalence of disease in
the population at large, including those with neck
bruits, as well as the potential harm of indiscriminate

e6 Ricotta et al

application of carotid bifurcation intervention to a large
number of asymptomatic individuals (GRADE 1, Level
of Evidence A).
4. Screening for asymptomatic clinically significant carotid
bifurcation stenosis should be considered in certain
groups of patients with multiple risk factors that increase
the incidence of disease as long as the patients are fit for
and willing to consider carotid intervention if a significant stenosis is discovered. The presence of a carotid
bruit in these patients increases the likelihood of a
significant stenosis (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
Such groups of patients include:
a