0.1016/j.jvsv.2018.10.002

17

18

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

RATIONALE FOR GUIDELINES
The current practice of using compression therapy after
invasive treatment of superﬁcial veins is based on the
clinical experience of generations of practitioners who
used this modality after surgical stripping of saphenous
veins, stab phlebectomies, and sclerotherapy. In the
case of sclerotherapy, such practice is based on experimental evidence.1 For other modalities, especially for
thermal ablation of saphenous veins, the evidence has
not been organized into a uniﬁed set of recommendations, making current clinical practice highly variable.
The Guidelines Committee of the American Venous
Forum (AVF) tasked this writing group to review available
evidence and to recommend practice guidelines.

METHODOLOGY
Previously described methodology used by the AVF
and Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) Joint Clinical
Practice Guidelines Committee was used.2

The Compression Guidelines writing group was
appointed by the AVF Guidelines Committee. Representatives from the SVS, Society of Vascular Medicine,
American College of Phlebology, and International Union
of Phlebology were invited and included in the writing
group. The literature search (MEDLINE, Embase,
Cochrane Library, Scopus, Google Scholar, Ovid) included
the terms “lower extremity veins,” “compression stockings,” “compression bandages,” “compression,” “compression therapy,” “sclerotherapy,” “vein surgery,” “high
ligation,” “stripping,” “stab phlebectomies,” and “vein ablation.” The entire list was reviewed by the group, and publications that were found to be relevant were selected for
preliminary review. This preliminary list was circulated
among the writing group members with relevant
expertise to identify any further relevant peer-reviewed
publications. Each publication included in the ﬁnal list
was reviewed and graded independently by three
writing group members.

Table. Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) recommendations based on
level of evidence
Grade

Description of
recommendation

Beneﬁt vs