
A classiﬁcation system of VLU into meaningful groups
in which comparative studies with different treatments can
be carried out is needed. This is necessary and cogent
because there is such diversity of disease entities under
the broad term venous ulcer. Pure venous ulcer: Reﬂux
into ulcer region by any route superﬁcial or perforator or
deep without identiﬁable additional disease. Mixed venous
ulcer: Reﬂux or obstruction creating venous hypertension
in region of venous ulcer in presence of identiﬁable additional disease.
Additional pathologic processes that are risk factors for
venous disease need to be categorized, such as arterial
occlusive disease, infection, inﬂammatory (dermatitis,
allergic, autoimmune), lymphedema, and morbid obesity.
Each of these disease processes presents additional barriers
that may require separate adjunctive treatment for the ulcer
to heal. If untreated, they can prolong healing even after
correction of venous reﬂux.
The study of the inﬂammatory cascade that allows
benign reﬂux to cause tissue changes leading to and
becoming VLU needs to be expanded. Understanding of
why some patients who have varicosities down to the ankle
associated with long-standing venous reﬂux can convert to
CEAP C4b-C6 severity is missing. If the cause is inﬂammation, then speciﬁc treatment of the inﬂammatory problem
with steroids or other measures may need to be included
in addition to correction of the reﬂux or obstruction.
Clinical Evaluation
The current management of VLU depends on accurate
identiﬁcation and assessment of the presence of venous disease underlying wound behavior. Accurate anatomic and
functional venous and wound classiﬁcation is required.
Whereas duplex ultrasound is an essential tool in achieving
venous disease diagnosis, additional imaging modalities that
aid in assessing wound biology and the physiologic impact
of wound and venous disease therapy are needed. The role
of outﬂow imaging for patients with suspected iliocaval stenosis/occlusion requires further development. Additional
validation of venous disease and wound classiﬁcation systems
and quality outcome measures is needed to allow better
comparative analysis evidence of therapeutic modalities.
Wound Care. The wound care ﬁeld continues to
evolve and expand