method provides superior clarity and separates the quality
of evidence from the strength of recommendations. It also
allows for the inclusion of patients’ values and preferences
in recommendations8 (Table I).
In this article, the committee presents the following
recommendation with the aim of clarifying the role of
TEVAR in the treatment of traumatic blunt aortic injuries.
While there was diversity of individual opinions, the article

reflects the consensus of the committee. The recommendation is followed by the supporting evidence, a values statement, and relevant technical remarks. Detailed description
of the data analysis is in the accompanying article.9
RECOMMENDATION BASED ON THE
META-ANALYSIS
Prospective randomized trials directly comparing open
vs endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injury are
unavailable. Despite probable clinical equipoise, such a
clinical trial will unlikely be conducted in a timely and
successful manner. Therefore, based on the systematic review of the available literature presented in an article by
Murad et al,9 the committee suggests that endovascular
repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injuries be performed
preferentially over open surgical repair or nonoperative
management. This recommendation is based on very low
quality evidence (Grade 2, Level C).
EVIDENCE
The systematic review commissioned by the Society
included 7768 patients (77% males). The mean ages of
patients treated nonoperatively and with endovascular or
open repair were 39, 39, and 36 years, respectively. The
mortality rate was significantly lower in patients who underwent endovascular repair, followed by open repair and
nonoperative management (9%, 19%, and 46%, respectively, P ⬍ .01). The ISS correlated with mortality after
open (P ⫽ .01) but not endovascular repair (P ⫽.68). No
significant difference in event rate across the three groups
was noted for any stroke. The risk of spinal cord ischemia
(SCI) and end stage renal disease (ESRD) was higher in
open repair compared with endovascular repair and nonoperative management (SCI: 9% open vs 3% endovascular and
3% nonoperative, P ⫽ .01; ESRD: 8% open vs 5% endovascular and 