 C3 or higher
clinical class venous disease. One study also suggested that
correction of pedal podalic angle with special insoles may
increase the calf muscle pump function.547
No data exist for educational interventions in those
with CVI to prevent VLU. However, the cost of and risk
to patients and family education are likely to be reasonable,
with little potential for harm. Knowledge of family history
of maternal venous reﬂux is important as a prognostic factor
for development of VLU.513 Moreover, education of caregivers who interact with patients with C1 to C4 disease
is equally important. It is recommended that all vascular
specialists make the effort to educate primary caregivers.
Guideline 8.5: Primary PreventiondOperative
Therapy
In patients with asymptomatic C1-2 disease from
either primary or secondary causes, we suggest against
prophylactic interventional therapies to prevent venous
leg ulcer. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
In patients with C1-2 disease from either primary or
secondary causes, it is unclear if interventional therapies
prevent long-term VLU occurrence, in contrast to good
supporting evidence for surgery and VLU recurrence. A
direct link between early treatment of superﬁcial venous
reﬂux and long-term VLU incidence is only circumstantial.
In a large study from Nelzen, a 50% reduction in VLU was
found to correlate with a better diagnosis and treatment of
superﬁcial disease.21 Whereas there have been no trials
assessing primary VLU prevention in those with C1-2

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

disease, superﬁcial venous interventions for secondary prevention decrease recurrent VLU.288 Similarly, there is no
evidence that prophylactic repair of the deep venous
valvular system can decrease long-term VLUs in those patients who have not manifested any such entity.
The goal of surgical treatments should be to improve
the patient’s symptoms, including leg pain, swelling, and
discomfort. To achieve this goal, numerous interventions
exist for treatment of superﬁcial venous disease as well as
deep system disease for secondary prevention of VLU,
speciﬁed in the section on operative