operatively, there was
no signiﬁcant difference in limb volume between the
two groups, and in fact patients without stockings actually returned to work faster. The authors suggested that
wearing an elastic compression stocking had no additional beneﬁt after compression bandaging for 3 days
after inversion stripping.26 A contrary ﬁnding was
observed in a study of female patients who were randomized into groups using compression therapy with
low-strength (18-21 mm Hg) vs moderate-strength
(23-32 mm Hg) compression stockings after undergoing
vein ablation surgery. The patients wore compression
for 6 weeks postoperatively. In this study, there were
many exclusion criteria, although deep venous insufﬁciency was not speciﬁed. Surgical procedures included
ligation and stripping of the great or small saphenous
vein, phlebectomy of tributaries, ligation of perforating
veins, phlebectomy of recurrent veins, and redo surgery
at the saphenofemoral or saphenopopliteal junctions.
One week after surgery, patients in the higher compression group had lower edema scores, reduced feeling of
tightness, and greater reduction in discomfort. At
6 weeks, there was no difference in these outcomes
between the two groups. There were no differences in
rates of complications at either 1 week or 6 weeks postoperatively. The authors concluded that there was an
advantage for moderate compression after vein ablation
surgery, and they recommended compression under
such circumstances.25
Finally, in one study, 979 limbs underwent procedures
for varicose veins and venous insufﬁciency, with the
majority of patients undergoing an ablation and a Trivex
(LeMaitre Vascular, Burlington, Mass) powered phlebectomy.36 The VCSS improved signiﬁcantly more with ablation plus Trivex compared with ablation alone. In this
study, all patients were wrapped with a short-stretch
compression bandage immediately after the procedure
and encouraged to ambulate. They were compressed
for at least 2 weeks postoperatively, with long-term

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

2