 the optimal endovascular approach for patients
with CMI.
d Deﬁne the optimal postoperative care paradigm after
endovascular revascularization for CMI
d

Open surgical revascularization
Recommendation.
1. The choice of open surgical revascularization for CMI
should be determined by anatomy, comorbidities,
prior interventions and provider preference. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
Rationale and background
The choice of open revascularization for CMI should be
determined by anatomy, patient comorbidities, prior interventions, and provider preference. There are a variety
of open and hybrid approaches, including antegrade
bypass from the supraceliac aorta, retrograde bypass
from the common iliac artery (or infrarenal aorta), aortic
endarterectomy, and open retrograde mesenteric stenting. The antegrade and retrograde bypasses are the most
commonly performed, but all of the approaches can be
viewed as complementary because they may play a
role in speciﬁc situations. Revascularization of both the
SMA and CA, as typically performed with the antegrade
bypass, affords some theoretical advantages, although
the outcomes have not been consistently better than
those reported for the SMA alone as typically performed
with the retrograde bypass. The perioperative care for patients undergoing open revascularization is comparable
with the endovascular approach although the incidence
of complications and hospital length of stay are both
increased as detailed previously. Medical treatment
should include antiplatelets and a statin, and all patients
should obtain a completion or surveillance imaging
study.
Detailed justiﬁcation
Similar to most bypass procedures, revascularization for
CMI requires a suitable inﬂow source, a suitable outﬂow
target, a lesion to bypass, and an acceptable conduit.
The common inﬂow sources include the supraceliac
aorta (antegrade bypass) and the infrarenal aorta/common iliac arteries (retrograde bypass). The ultimate
determinant of the inﬂow choice (and the bypass conﬁguration) is contingent upon the distribution of the arterial
occlusive disease and the provider familiarity with
various exposures. The supraceliac aorta tends to be relatively spared from atherosclerotic disease, although the
exposure is a bit