ovascular-ﬁrst approach, regardless of the initial
approach, whereas open revascularization should be
reserved for patients who are not amenable to the endovascular approach. A select group of patients with
asymptomatic recurrent stenosis may also beneﬁt from
reintervention, but the exact indications for such reintervention remain undeﬁned.
Detailed justiﬁcation
Patients who undergo revascularization for MAOD and
CMI are at risk for recurrent stenoses and recurrent symptoms. The incidence of these adverse events is greater after endovascular revascularization, as noted elsewhere in
this discussion. The presentation can range from asymptomatic stenoses to AMI and bowel infarction. Fortunately, the latter condition seems to be less common
and it is encouraging that the higher rate of recurrence
seen in the endovascular group is not associated with a
higher longer term mortality rate. Fortunately, the incidence of recurrent symptoms is less common than the
incidence of recurrent stenoses, but highlights the fact
that the presence of recurrent symptoms is not a surrogate for vessel or graft patency. The natural history of
these recurrent stenoses, both asymptomatic and

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

109S

Volume 73, Number 1S

symptomatic, remains poorly deﬁned. It is conceivable
that the asymptomatic, recurrent stenosis has a worse
prognosis than a comparable, untreated asymptomatic
lesion, given that the index lesion was initially treated
for CMI, although this remains to be documented.
Patients should be counseled about the risk of recurrent stenosis and recurrent symptoms. They should be
engaged in their health care and counseled to seek urgent medical attention if they develop recurrent symptoms. Ideally, they should be engaged in a longer term
follow-up protocol, although the frequency of visits
beyond the immediate perioperative period remains undeﬁned. There is likely some usefulness in an imagebased surveillance protocol based on the contention
that the identiﬁcation of a signiﬁcant lesion may lead
to a remedial intervention that will translate into a better
outcome in terms of vessel/graft patency and a lower
incidence of recurrent symptoms and death. The purported beneﬁts of surveillance in this setting are similar
to those after lower extremity