Cerebrovascular

25

Abdominal

30

Medical Management Requirements. Training in medical management of peripheral vascular disease is an integral part of vascular surgery training. Vascular trainees
should have a thorough understanding of vascular disease risk factor modiﬁcation. The care of the vascular patient occurs in a continuum, and the trainee is expected
to be able to evaluate these patients preoperatively, in
the perioperative period including critical care management in the intensive care unit, and in the postoperative
outpatient setting including surveillance of interventions.
For individuals who have completed the traditional (5 þ
2) or early specialization (4 þ 2) training programs, their
general surgery training experience includes a minimum
of 40 cases in surgical critical care, with at least one in
each of seven categories: ventilator management;
bleeding (nontrauma); hemodynamic instability; organ
dysfunction/failure; dysrhythmias; invasive line management and monitoring; and parenteral/enteral nutrition.
For individuals who began integrated (0 þ 5) training in
July 2015, the minimum of 40 cases is also required
(http://www.absurgery.org/default.jsp?certvsqe).

catheterizations is 100, and the minimum number of
interventional catheterizations is 80 (Table I).4
It is not realistic or feasible to require minimum
numbers to confer competency for all endovascular
interventions because of an absence of supporting
evidence-based research. Nonetheless, the SVS wishes
to address three speciﬁc endovascular interventions:
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR), thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR), and carotid artery stenting
(CAS). The recommended minimum number of EVAR
cases is 20 and represents an increase over the 2002
RRC minimum of 5 cases as the primary operator. This
number reﬂects the increasing percentage of EVAR vs
open repair in the United States and speciﬁcally in
vascular training programs. These guidelines may
change with time to remain consistent with future
training.
The SVS endorses multidisciplinary guideline papers in
which the SVS has participated concerning TEVARs.5 Requirements for TEVARs include full basic endovascular
