1 and 2. There were more major adverse events in group 1
and more minor events (skin irritation) in group 3. No
superﬁcial venous thrombosis or DVT occurred in any
patient. The authors concluded that higher pressures
were better, although the pad had to be taped in place
and caused more skin irritation.13
In a single-center study of patients undergoing endovenous laser ablation of the saphenous vein, 200 subjects
were randomized to stockings alone (35 mm Hg) vs
stockings plus “eccentric” compression focused over the
ablated vein (cotton wool bulk under the stocking to
provide additional localized compression directly over
the ablated vein). Patients were assessed at 7 days for
their level of pain using a VAS pain score (0, no pain;
10, maximum pain). The results demonstrate a highly
signiﬁcant reduction in pain at 7 days in patients treated
with additional bulk (pain score of 1.4 with bulk plus
stocking vs 4.9 with stocking alone). The authors
concluded that additional focused eccentric compression directly over the treated vein greatly reduces postablation pain at 7 days.12
In the ﬁfth study, Bond et al23 investigated the effects of
three different compression stockings (TED [Cardinal
Health, Waukegan, Ill], Medi-Tech [Danbury, Conn],
Panelast) on postoperative pain in 48 patients undergoing ligation and stripping of the GSV. In each patient,
each leg was randomized to one of the three types of
stockings. There were no signiﬁcant differences in pain
scores at 1 week after the procedure, measured using a
numerical scale, among any of the stockings applied.
The overall quality of published studies is inadequate
because of small sample size, lack of blinding, lack of
randomization, lack of data addressing compression
strengths, and inconsistent outcomes. However, taken
together, they suggest that postoperative pain in the ﬁrst
7 days after saphenous surgery or thermal ablation can
be reduced with the use of higher compression modalities and eccentric compression.

2. SHORT-TERM COMPRESSION (<2 WEEKS) VS
LONGER TERM COMPRESSION AFTER THERMAL
ABLATION
Guideline