-related thrombus extension (ARTE)
according to established guidelines for acute deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
Domain

Evidence/Panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable effects of the
strategy?

The value of routine treatment of symptomatic DVT is well
established although it is less certain that the natural history of
ARTE is identical to DVT.

Probably
beneﬁcial

How substantial are the undesirable
anticipated effects?

Low risk of major bleeding (approximately 1%) with direct oral
anticoagulants. Inconvenience and cost of anticoagulation. High
cost and inconvenience of routine ultrasound follow-up.

Low

Do the desirable effects outweigh the
undesirable effects?

Probably favors anticoagulation in symptomatic patients

Probably
yes

What is the overall certainty of the evidence
of effects?

Low with uncertain natural history of ARTE
High certainty regarding low risk of anticoagulation

Low

How large are the resource requirements
associated with the intervention?

Low: Fewer resources required for anticoagulation in comparison
with ultrasound follow-up

Low

How large is the incremental cost relative to
the net beneﬁt?

No available data

Unknown

What would be the effect on health
inequalities?

None

None

Is the opinion acceptable to key stakeholders?

No data available

Unknown

Is the opinion feasible to implement?

Yes

Yes

Although randomized trials evaluating screening DUS
vs no ultrasound in asymptomatic patients after saphenous ablation have not been done, two such trials have
been performed in orthopedic patients.240 These trials
failed to demonstrate a beneﬁt to routine postoperative
screening, although major bleeding rates were higher
in the screening arms.
In one of the systematic reviews,234 nonthermal techniques were associated with a higher incidence of DVT
than thermal techniques (0.43 vs 0.23%; P ¼ .02),
although this difference was due to a higher incidence

of DVT in patients undergoing sclerotherapy
(Table XXII). Although total VTE events were higher
among patients undergoing RFA in comparison with
EVLA (3.1% vs 2.2%; P < .001), EHIT was higher in patients
undergoing EVLA (4.4% vs 3.0%; P < .001).