 an ofﬁce-administered 6minute walk performance test exhibited signiﬁcantly increased
mortality (odds ratio [OR], 2.36).
4A. Pharmacotherapy for patients with claudication:
Risk reduction
Patients with IC carry a signiﬁcant systemic burden of
atherosclerosis and are at risk for its associated complications.
These patients should have lifelong treatment designed to
eliminate or modify known risk factors for atherosclerosis to
reduce the risk of cardiovascular complications or death. In
addition, treatment of risk factors can reduce the risk of periprocedural complications or death after any invasive treatments undertaken for PAD and may improve the patency of
interventions. Many of the recommendations for risk-factor
modiﬁcation in PAD have been extrapolated from the literature on secondary prevention in coronary artery disease.
This represents a notable gap in evidence speciﬁc to PAD
and is particularly relevant in terms of setting deﬁned treatment targets that are population-speciﬁc and disease-speciﬁc.
Smoking cessation. In observational studies, continued
smoking is associated with higher rates of amputation, death,
and myocardial infarction in patients with PAD compared with
those who have quit.65 Continued smoking has been associated with a twofold to threefold increase in the rate of lower
extremity bypass graft failure compared with nonsmokers.66,67

Conte and Pomposelli et al 9S

Dyslipidemia. Treatment of dyslipidemia with statins
reduces the likelihood of adverse cardiovascular events in
patients with atherosclerosis.56,68-70 Patients with PAD
were designated as high or very high risk for adverse cardiovascular events by the National Cholesterol Educational
Program Adult Treatment Panel #3 and are advised to
undergo treatment to lower low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol to <100 mg/dL or to <70 mg/dL in very
high-risk individuals.71 As noted above, the most recent
guidelines on lipid therapy focus on the estimation of 10year cardiovascular risk rather than speciﬁc lipid levels.
Although PAD per se is not included in the suggested
risk estimation algorithm, historical data suggest that all
PAD patients would meet the suggested threshold of a
7.5% 10-year risk. It is