 Association (AHA)
guidelines committee. This document is divided into six
major sections:
I. Indications for imaging of the extracranial circulation
II. Selection of imaging modality
III. The importance of medical therapy in the overall
management of patients with carotid stenosis, including medical management in the peri-intervention period.
IV. Technical considerations for performing CEA and
CAS
V. The relative roles of medical management, CEA and
CAS for stroke risk reduction in patients with carotid
stenosis based on review of the literature, with particular reference to risk factor stratification and the most
recent completed trials
VI. The management of unusual conditions associated
with extracranial carotid pathology, including acute
neurologic conditions, symptomatic carotid occlusion, carotid dissection, and patients with carotid stenosis in need of coronary artery revascularization
The committee reviewed the literature pertinent to
each of the six areas and provided recommendations for
treatment using the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation
Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system.14 This
system, adopted by more than 40 other organizations,
incorporates an evaluation of the strength of the evidence
and the risks/benefits of implementing the recommendation. For the purposes of this review, we placed the highest
priorities on reducing overall stroke risk, periprocedural
stroke risk, and periprocedural mortality. Lesser importance was given to reducing nonfatal MI, cost, and the
ability to perform a percutaneous procedure. Recommendations are characterized as strong GRADE 1 or weak
GRADE 2, based on the quality of evidence, the balance
between desirable effects and undesirable ones, the values
and preferences, and the resources and costs.
GRADE 1 recommendations are meant to identify
practices where benefit clearly outweighs risk. These recommendations can be made by clinicians and accepted by
patients with a high degree of confidence. GRADE 2
recommendations are made when the benefits and risks are
more closely matched and are more dependent on specific
clinical scenarios. In general, physician and patient preference plays a more important role in the decision-making
process in these circumstances.
In addition to the GRADE of recommendation, the
level of evidence to support the recommendation is noted.
Evidence is divided into 3 categories: A (high quality), B