ose Vein Severity scores of the limbs
decreased.
9.1.3. For patients with symptomatic recurrent varicosities due to persistent or recurrent reﬂux at the
groin, either EVLA or RFA can be used if there is a
straight GSV stump, long enough for thermal ablation.

Sclerotherapy or phlebectomy should be performed
for recurrence due to neovascularization.
Consensus statement.
Rationale. Groin recurrence can be due to recanalized
or enlarged remnants of the GSV or tributaries due to
neovascularization or disease progression from other
vein segments.
Evidence. The Edinburgh group220 has classiﬁed
recurrence into the following subtypes: residual GSV
(type 1A), residual tributaries that have enlarged (1B), or
neovascularization (1C). The disease from new segments, type 2 is subdivided into cross-groin connections
(2A) and thigh perforators (2B). Recurrent veins are
often difﬁcult to classify221 and difﬁcult to treat and
there is no preferred mode of treatment. Options
include surgical removal, sclerotherapy, and thermal
ablation. All modalities have their challenges, including
easy tearing and bleeding in the presence of scarring
from previous open procedures. UGFS is used with
increasing frequency instead of open surgery. EVLA can
be performed if there is a straight stump but it can also
be challenging in patients with tortuous or short GSV
stumps.
9.1.4. For patients with symptomatic recurrent varicosity due to persistent or recurrent reﬂux of the SSV,
UGFS should be performed.
Consensus statement.
Rationale and evidence. SSV recurrence is rare but can
occur following incomplete obliteration distal to the SPJ
and in patients with persisting reﬂux in tributaries associated with the saphenous stump. Recurrence can also
occur if there is neovascularization that reconnects the

42

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

Table XXIX. Clinical beneﬁt of Red vine leaf extract
Possible explanations of heterogeneity (factors to be used
