
Although evidence in randomized trials of routine ultrasound screening is lacking, the strength of our recommendation is 1 (strong) against screening in this patient
population, given the futility of performing such studies.
Evidence. A systematic review of 39 RCTs and 33 observational studies (31,663 patients in total) undergoing
routine DUS within 4 weeks of thermal or nonthermal
ablation of the GSV, SSV, or accessory veins, found a
very low incidence of EHIT (2.9%), DVT (0.26%), and PE
(0.03%).234 Most EHITs were types I and II, with the incidence of EHIT III to IV being only 0.5%. The pooled incidence of any VTE event (EHIT II-IV, DVT, and PE) was
1.32% (95% CI, 0.75%-2.02%) with signiﬁcant heterogeneity. The cost of routine ultrasound screening was estimated to be $61,292 per EHIT III or IV or DVT prevented.
A second, large systematic review (52 studies, 16,398 patients) evaluated only observational studies or

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

49

Volume 12, Number 1

Table XXXVII. Evidence to decision framework: Routine ultrasound screening in asymptomatic average-risk patients
Domain

Evidence/panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable effects of the strategy?

Routine screening associated with substantial cost, resource
utilization, and cost. Risk of bleeding events associated with
anticoagulation for asymptomatic ultrasound identiﬁed
events.

Large

How substantial are the undesirable anticipated
effects?

Risk of asymptomatic thrombus progression/embolization if
not identiﬁed. Incidence of these events is very low
(approximately 1.5%). However, risk of progression/
embolization in these patients is unclear.

Probably
low

Do the desirable effects outweigh the undesirable
effects?

Yes

Yes

What is the overall certainty of the evidence of effects?

High certainty regarding low incidence of thrombotic
events after ablation. Low certainty regarding the natural
history of rare asymptomatic events identiﬁed by
