7% had left main
disease, emphasizing the importance of risk factor
reduction and optimal medical management with antiplatelet agents, statins, and blood pressure control.151,556
However, there are other predictors of postoperative
stroke, such as female gender or renal failure that are
nonmodiﬁable.557 If not absolutely contraindicated,
statin and antiplatelet therapy should continue in the
perioperative period of noncardiac surgery in patients
with asymptomatic moderate to severe carotid stenosis,
as long as bleeding risk is not excessive.554 Although
most literature assesses symptomatic stroke and TIA,
there is also an ongoing trial to identify covert stroke after noncardiac surgery by evaluation of MRI and cognitive assessments.558
Summary and recommendations.
1. Before noncardiac surgery, preoperative carotid and
cerebral imaging is suggested in patients with stroke
or TIA within preceding 6 months.
2. Patients with carotid artery disease undergoing
noncardiac surgery should have the same indications
for intervention as the general population.
3. If possible, statin and antiplatelet therapy should be
continued perioperatively in patients with 50% to
99% asymptomatic stenosis.
4. If a patient has asymptomatic carotid stenosis and
critical limb ischemia, the limb ischemia should be
addressed ﬁrst.

OPERATIVE VOLUME AND SPECIALTY AND
CAROTID INTERVENTION: CEA AND CAS
Carotid endarterectomy
Several studies concluded that higher surgeon volume
is associated with lower complication rates after
CEA,2,559-562 and others have noted high-volume centers
are associated with better outcomes.563-565 It has also
been reported that surgeon specialty may play a role in
perioperative outcomes after CEA, with some studies
noting advantages of one surgical specialty over
another.559,566,567 Only a few studies have examined the
combined impact of the surgeon’s specialty and volume
as they relate to CEA outcomes.559,567 Healthcare reform
and related issues concerning comparative and costeffectiveness are driving the need to deﬁne outcomerelated interventions. This is especially true for asympt