 as possible
where a normal palpable pulse is identified to preserve more
proximal sites of inflow for future accesses. Therefore, in
patients with a palpable posterior branch of the radial artery
pulse, an autogenous posterior radial branch– cephalic direct wrist access (snuffbox) should be considered. In patients with a nonpalpable posterior branch of the radial
artery pulse but a palpable radial artery pulse at the wrist, an
autogenous radial– cephalic direct wrist access is performed. In either of these cases, if the cephalic vein is felt to
be too deep or is not close to the radial artery in the wrist,
an autogenous radial– cephalic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial artery pulse is nonpalpable, the ulnar
may provide an alternative distal inflow site; alternatively,
the entire trunk, but especially the proximal segment of
either the radial or the ulnar artery, may provide an arterial
source. In instances where the radial or ulnar artery pulse is
not palpable at the wrist but the brachial artery pulse is, an

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

autogenous brachial– cephalic forearm looped transposition can be performed.
When the cephalic vein is not considered adequate for
an autogenous AV access, the forearm basilic vein is the
preferred alternative. Secondary to its posteromedial location in the forearm, a transposition is always required to
provide safe access for hemodialysis. Possible sites of arterial
inflow include the entire trunk of the radial or ulnar arteries,
or the brachial artery. Use of the posterior branch of the
radial artery is usually difficult for this procedure secondary
to the distance from the basilic vein.
Similar to the cephalic vein, the AV access is placed as
distally in the arm as possible where a palpable pulse is
identified to preserve more proximal sites of inflow for
future accesses. Therefore, when a radial artery pulse is
palpable, an autogenous radial– basilic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial artery pulse is nonpalpable
but the ulnar artery pulse is palpable, an autogenous ulnar–
basilic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial and
ulnar artery pulses are