ATIONS IN
ANEURYSM REPAIR
The complexity and intensity of aortic aneurysm treatment result in signiﬁcant costs and resource utilization.
These initial costs include imaging, preoperative risk
management, operating room, personnel, implants, and
recovery. Long-term follow-up and imaging have costs,
as does the treatment of any complications from the
initial procedure or failure of the graft itself. Besides these
provider costs, patients and their families also bear cost
from lost work productivity and out-of-pocket
expenditures.
Contemporary estimates show that in-hospital costs of
treatment for open repair or EVAR are approximately
$40,000 in the United States, with lower cost estimates
in Canada (U.S. $16,000) and other countries.759,760 Implants are a signiﬁcant portion of EVAR costs (34%52%), but these costs are offset by the higher costs after
open repair from longer hospitalization.761,762 Whereas
open repair is slightly more expensive during the initial

hospitalization, no signiﬁcant differences are seen in
long-term follow-up because of the need for surveillance
imaging and reinterventions after EVAR.
Calculating cost of care does not shed light on the
beneﬁt of care. The major beneﬁt of treatment for patients with an aortic aneurysm is increased survival. However, patients endure a decreased quality of life after
surgery, which may be prolonged should a complication
occur. Because EVAR confers a lower complication rate
and smaller incisions compared with open repair, patients undergoing EVAR generally have better healthrelated quality of life within the ﬁrst 12 months, although
there is no signiﬁcant difference beyond the ﬁrst year.763
When cost and effectiveness are combined, costeffectiveness analysis can reveal the value of different
treatment options and also allow comparison to other
treatments in other ﬁelds. Early Markov decision analysis
models show that EVAR is cost-effective compared with
open repair, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio
of $22,826.764 However, contemporary Markov models using data from the DREAM,765 EVAR 1,682 OVER,76