vascularisation techniques should be considered
(Fig. 2).
Clinical question
In people with diabetes, PAD, and either a foot ulcer or
gangrene, how does direct angiosome revascularisation
compare with indirect angiosome revascularisation?

Recommendation 19
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene, revascularisation procedures should aim to
restore in line blood ﬂow to at least one of the foot arteries.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
In people with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene
in whom revascularisation is required, optimising
blood ﬂow to the foot is important to maximise the
chance of healing the foot and avoiding amputation.
Incomplete revascularisation (including treating inﬂow
disease when distal disease is present or bypassing into
blind segment arteries with no runoff), can result in
delayed or non-wound healing and a substantial risk of
amputation.
Bypass surgery is ideally performed to an outﬂow vessel
that runs into the foot. However, bypasses performed to
the peroneal artery (which rely on collateralisation to
the foot) are most effective when there is good collateralisation to the foot and a patent pedal arch is present.99
Pedal arch patency also seems to be associated with
improved wound healing and reduced risk of major
amputation.113

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1121

Volume 78, Number 5

Recommendation 20
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene undergoing an endovascular procedure,
consider targeting the artery on angiography that supplies
the anatomical region of the ulcer, when possible or practical.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Very low

Rationale
Angiosomes are three dimensional regions of tissue
and skin supplied by a source artery. The six angiosomes
of the foot and ankle are supplied by the posterior tibial
artery (n ¼ 3), peroneal artery (n ¼ 2), and anterior tibial
artery (n ¼ 1) (Fig. 3). Communications between angiosomes include direct arterial to arterial connections, as