 potential autogenous AV access sites that are overlooked by physical examination. Silva et al57 found ultrasound evaluation increased AV fistula construction from
14% to 63%. Ultrasound venous mapping, which is performed with and without a venous pressure tourniquet in
place, evaluates vein diameter, patency, continuity, and
distensibility of the planned venous outflow conduit. Both
distensibility and venous diameter have been found to
independently predict autogenous AV access success.56,57
For the surgeon performing the operative planning,
ultrasound offers simultaneous visualization of both the
deep and superficial venous systems along with adjacent
arteries. Brief, preoperative ultrasound mapping, just before the surgical procedure, is often helpful in confirming
available vessels targeted for the procedure and marking the
anticipated surgical site.

Sidawy et al 7S

Contrast venography. This procedure may be used for
peripheral vein mapping, particularly when ultrasound imaging is not available. When history or physical findings
suggest a central stenosis or occlusion, venography is superior to ultrasound imaging, offers the best opportunity to
both identify and treat these central lesions, and is relatively
safe. Asif et al66 found only one patient of 25 studied
required dialysis ⱕ4 weeks after vein mapping with lowdiluted osmolarity contrast. MRA has been reported in preoperative central venous imaging but has not been shown to be more
effective than standard venography.67 As in arterial evaluations,
MRA has been rarely used in venous AV access planning. Although promising, these early reports of MRA mapping should
be considered preliminary.68-69
2. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Operative
strategies to optimize the placement of autogenous
arteriovenous accesses
We recommend optimizing the placement of autogenous accesses using the following operative strategies:
A. AV accesses are placed as far distally in the upper
extremity as possible to preserve proximal sites for
future accesses (GRADE 1 recommendation, very
low-quality evidence).
B. When possible, autogenous AV accesses should be
considered before prosthetic arteriovenous accesses
are placed. These autogenous access configurations
should include, in order of preference, the use of
direct AV anastomosis, venous transpositions, and