 outﬂow target to amore distal level in 30% of patients. Previous EVT, with or without stents, may adversely
affect graft patency, limb salvage, and amputation-free survival compared with bypasses done as initial therapy for
CLI.218 Failure of stented endovascular interventions done
for claudication has resulted in acute limb ischemia, especially when covered stents grafts have been used.219 In addition to these observations, microembolization into the
outﬂow bed and loss of potential outﬂow targets have
been postulated as causes for the inferior results of secondary
surgical bypass in these patients.
Catheter-based treatment of occlusive disease involving
popliteal or more distal arteries, or both, has not been speciﬁcally evaluated for the treatment of IC and presents
additional problems and the risk of signiﬁcant complications. Popliteal occlusive disease may result in IC, especially
when there are poorly developed collaterals from the profunda femoral artery through the geniculate arteries. EVT
of popliteal artery occlusive disease is technically feasible;
however, its long-term durability is not known, and failure
in this location may result in limb-threatening ischemic
symptoms or the need for a distal tibial bypass, or both.
Flow-limiting dissection, occlusion, or perforation may
result in the undesirable need to place a stent across the
knee joint. Newer, more ﬂexible stent designs may ultimately improve outcomes in the popliteal artery,220 but
comparative studies with adequate follow-up are not available at present. Consequently, it should be undertaken
both with caution and some trepidation for claudication.
In most circumstances, isolated tibial disease does not present with symptoms of claudication and should not be undertaken for relief of claudication symptoms. Adding tibial
angioplasty to a more proximal intervention to improve runoff
in the hope of improving patency has not been studied. The
durability of tibial angioplasty is worse than SFA angioplasty,
averaging <40% at 3 years221 in patients undergoing treatment for limb salvage, where it is most commonly performed.
The need for reintervention at this level is high, and persistent
failure after