SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERYÒ DOCUMENT

The Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity
Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System: Risk
stratiﬁcation based on Wound, Ischemia, and foot
Infection (WIfI)
Joseph L. Mills, Sr, MD,a Michael S. Conte, MD,b David G. Armstrong, DPM, MD, PhD,a
Frank B. Pomposelli, MD,c Andres Schanzer, MD,d Anton N. Sidawy, MD, MPH,e and
George Andros, MD,f on behalf of the Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Guidelines
Committee, Tucson, Ariz; San Francisco and Van Nuys, Calif; Brighton and Worcester, Mass; and
Washington, D.C.
Critical limb ischemia, ﬁrst deﬁned in 1982, was intended to delineate a subgroup of patients with a threatened lower
extremity primarily because of chronic ischemia. It was the intent of the original authors that patients with diabetes be
excluded or analyzed separately. The Fontaine and Rutherford Systems have been used to classify risk of amputation and
likelihood of beneﬁt from revascularization by subcategorizing patients into two groups: ischemic rest pain and tissue
loss. Due to demographic shifts over the last 40 years, especially a dramatic rise in the incidence of diabetes mellitus and
rapidly expanding techniques of revascularization, it has become increasingly difﬁcult to perform meaningful outcomes
analysis for patients with threatened limbs using these existing classiﬁcation systems. Particularly in patients with diabetes, limb threat is part of a broad disease spectrum. Perfusion is only one determinant of outcome; wound extent and
the presence and severity of infection also greatly impact the threat to a limb. Therefore, the Society for Vascular Surgery
Lower Extremity Guidelines Committee undertook the task of creating a new classiﬁcation of the threatened lower
extremity that reﬂects these important considerations. We term this new framework, the Society for Vascular Surgery
Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System. Risk stratiﬁcation is based on three major factors that impact
amputation risk and clinical management: Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI). The implementation of this
classiﬁcation system is