 mechanical and thrombolytic therapy (pharmacomechanical thrombolysis) may increase the lytic effect, reducing the procedural time. Depending on the
severity and duration of ischemia and the physical examination ﬁndings, calf fasciotomies may be required after
successful revascularization.
Failure to establish a bypass target vessel using either
lytic or operative methods can necessitate amputation,
depending on the patient’s clinical condition.40,42 Limbs
that are not salvageable at presentation (Rutherford
grade III) should undergo primary amputation rather
than revascularization to avoid reperfusion injury, potential renal failure, and other complications attendant
upon a nonviable limb.23 The timing of the amputation
is dictated by clinical and physiologic ﬁndings.
Recommendation 6: We recommend that patients
who undergo OPAR or EPAR should be followed up using clinical examination, ankle brachial index (ABI),
and DUS at 3, 6, and 12 months during the ﬁrst postoperative year and, if stable, annually thereafter. In addition to DUS evaluation of the repair, the aneurysm sac
should be evaluated for evidence of enlargement. If
abnormalities are found on clinical examination, ABI,
or DUS, appropriate clinical management according
to the lower extremity endovascular or open bypass

guidelines should be undertaken (grade 1B). If
compressive symptoms or symptomatic aneurysm
sac expansion are noted, we suggest surgical decompression of the aneurysm sac (grade 1C).
Open surgical or endovascular treatment of PAAs requires a protocol of surveillance using DUS. Retrospective reviews have identiﬁed the incidence of secondary
interventions ranging from 33% to 63% in the ﬁrst 2 years
after PAA repair. Speciﬁcally, of 48 surgical reconstructions, DUS identiﬁed 14 graft abnormalities in 12 reconstructions after the initial 30 days. Only seven
endovascular reconstructions and two patients had presented with thrombosis of the stent-grafts within
2 months of treatment. The results from the other ﬁve
DUS scans did not result in any intervention by the
time of the report.46