should be performed.

14.2.

For patients with an asymptomatic superﬁcial truncal vein aneurysm, located
>3 cm distal to the SFJ, endovenous ablation alone should be performed.
Thromboprophylaxis in these patients reduces the risk of VTE.

14.3.

Patients with symptomatic, thrombosed or large (>3 cm) aneurysms in the
superﬁcial veins are best treated with surgical excision.

DISCLAIMER
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) develops evidenced-based clinical practice guidelines as a resource
to assist members in the practice of vascular surgery.
The guideline recommendations contained herein are
based on a recent review of published evidence. They
reﬂect the available body of evidence, and their applicability reﬂects the limitations of that data and are subject
to reassessment and revision as new knowledge
emerges. Given these limitations, clinical practice guidelines do not represent a statement of the standard of
care, nor do they substitute for clinician judgment or
supplant patient preference or shared decision-making.
The Society of Vascular Surgery recognizes that departure from guidelines may be warranted when, in the
reasonable judgment of the treating clinician, such
course of action is indicated by the clinical presentation
of the patient, limitations of available resources, advances in knowledge or technology, or patient preference. The reader must rely solely on their own
judgment to determine what practices and procedures,

whether included in this practice guideline or not, are
appropriate for them, their patient, their institution, or
their practice.

INTRODUCTION
Varicose veins of the lower extremities are among the
most frequent medical conditions affecting millions of
people worldwide.1-3 Chronic venous disease (CVD) may
cause minimal symptoms, but varicose veins may often
also be the source of discomfort, pain, swelling, thrombosis, bleeding, and ulcerations, causing disability and a
negative impact on physical, psychological, and social
functioning components of quality of life (QOL).4 Patients
with chronic venous insufﬁciency (CVI) may progress to
phlebolymphedema, skin changes with chronic inﬂammation, and venous leg ulcerations.5,6
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS), the American
Venous Forum (AVF),