 SVS runoff score from 4.1 to 6.4,
amounting to the loss of one runoff vessel for each episode
of stent occlusion. If these ﬁnding are conﬁrmed in future
studies and accurate cutoff criteria predicting progression to

Recommendations: Surveillance after interventions for intermittent claudication (IC)

6.1.

6.2.
6.3.

We suggest that patients treated with open or endovascular interventions for IC be monitored
with a clinical surveillance program that consists of an interval history to detect new
symptoms, ensure compliance with medical therapies, record subjective functional
improvements, pulse examination, and measurement of resting and, if possible,
postexercise ABIs.
We suggest that patients treated with lower extremity vein grafts for IC be monitored with a
surveillance program that consists of clinical follow-up and duplex scanning.
We suggest that patients who have previously undergone vein bypass surgery for IC and have
developed a signiﬁcant graft stenosis on DUS be considered for prophylactic reintervention
(open or endovascular) to promote long-term bypass graft patency.

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; DUS, duplex ultrasound.

Grade

Level of
evidence

2

C

2

C

1

C

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 33S

Summary of evidence: Surveillance after interventions for intermittent claudication (IC)

Clinical question

Data source

Finding

Quality of
evidence

Improved vein graft patency C (quality of evidence rated
The effect of surveillance after Data derived from CLI
down due to indirectness,
with DUS (CLI patients).
patients, uncontrolled and
revascularization for IC on
methodological limitation,
Two RCTs showed no
mostly in vein grafts. Two
patency (surveillance vs no
and imprecision)
difference between clinical
RCTs comparing clinical
surveillance, clinical followexamination and DUS
examination vs DUS
up vs duplex scanning,
shorter interval of surveillance
vs longer interval)
CLI, Critical limb ischemia; DUS, duplex ultrasound; RCT, randomized controlled trial.
clinical failure after SFA stenting can be determined, selective
prophylactic reintervention after SFA stenting might be