 30% in
one study of low quality.81 There are insufﬁcient data
investigating the relationship between SPP and amputation outcomes to formulate a recommendation.
In summary, when comparing different studies, the ABI
seemed to have the best predictive capacity for major
amputation, while the TP and TcPO2 seemed to have a
better predictive capacity for wound healing. It was noteworthy that there was insufﬁcient evidence for the use of
the TBI to predict either healing or amputation outcomes. The number of prospective studies and the number of participants included in the aforementioned
studies were relatively low, the populations studied
differed, and results of the tests performed were
frequently not blinded. Moreover, comparison of studies
was hampered by the fact that different studies used
different thresholds for disease and thus combining
data for analysis was not possible.
When bedside testing is not performed the risks of a
poor clinical outcome or unnecessary, more costly, investigations are large. As discussed earlier, most bedside
tests are of low burden to both the person and the

healthcare system, although training and expertise are
necessary. If these tests are not performed, the clinician
must rely only on clinical judgement and on imaging investigations. Although imaging will provide details of the
arterial anatomy, the non-invasive bedside tests will
inform the clinician about the perfusion in the foot. However, absolute perfusion thresholds applicable for all people cannot be provided as the outcome of the DFU is
determined not only by the degree of ischaemia. Other
factors such as infection, extent of tissue loss, and ulcer
depth, can have a major effect on healing potential
and amputation risk, as discussed below. For this reason
and the uncertainty of the evidence, a Conditional
Recommendation for use of AP, ABI, and TP to predict
the likelihood of healing and amputation was made.
TcPO2 and SPP tests require more expensive equipment and greater expertise for application than other
bedside testing, which may be a barrier for centres in
low or middle income countries. Although healthcare expenditures may increase with each of these measurements, incorrect assessment of the severity of PAD can
result in inadequate treatment and poorer outcomes
with ultimately an increase in costs. Importantly, all the
aforementioned bedside tests have varying capacity to
predict likelihood of healing and of