 risks and beneﬁts of doing surgery
under regional/local anesthesia while the patient is on
perioperative antiplatelet therapy. It is generally not recommended to stop antiplatelet therapy and/or delay
CEA for the usual recommendation of 7 days, as this may
increase the risk of early recurrent embolic stroke.
Summary and recommendations. The choice of anesthesia local/regional vs general anesthesia is equivalent
and should be left to surgeon’s/anesthesiologist’s preference because both techniques have similar outcomes
and should be based on availability of expertise for effective block (Table III).
Decision for longitudinal versus transverse incision for
CEA
Although the traditional approach to the carotid bifurcation is through a longitudinal incision just medial to the
anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, a
transverse incision can be performed. However, a key
concern with a transverse incision is the cephalad extent
of the atherosclerotic disease. As shown by Ascher
et al,245 if one were to undertake the transverse incision,
the bifurcation should be analyzed by duplex ultrasound
examination not only before surgery, but also at the time
of surgery. This allows the surgeon to identify where the
bifurcation is, as well as to conﬁrm the extent of disease.245
Other investigators have demonstrated that transverse incisions give better cosmetic results with fewer cranial nerve
injuries.246 However, Marcucci et al247 reported that it is
more difﬁcult to shunt using the transverse incision, and
saw no difference in the presence of cranial nerve injuries.
Summary and recommendations. In the absence of
Level 1 data, a transverse crease incision may give the
best cosmetic results if there is a focal stenosis with a
relatively low bifurcation.
Anticoagulation and protamine reversal
In the last decade, numerous reports have documented
increased use of anticoagulation reversal with protamine

sulfate after CEA. The Vascular Study Group of Northern
New England ﬁrst noted safe use of protamine to reduce
bleeding complication without increased stroke risk.248 In
2013, the same group noted an increase in anticoagulation
reversal among their surgeon cohort