 and the
strength of our convictions in offering these guidelines.
Factors other than data (eg, experience, values, surgeon, or
patient preferences) often play a role in decision making,
especially when supporting data are imperfect. The
strength of a recommendation may not be solely a function
of the strength of the supporting data. To summarize our
recommendations in order of their strength and the quality
of supporting data, we offer the following:
Strong Recommendations ⫹ High Quality Evidence:
a) We recommend optimal medical therapy without revascularization in symptomatic patients with ⬍50% stenosis.
b) We recommend optimal medical therapy without revascularization in asymptomatic patients with ⬍60% stenosis.
c) We recommend carotid endarterectomy plus optimal
medical therapy in symptomatic patients with ⱖ50%
carotid stenosis.
d) We recommend carotid endarterectomy plus optimal
medical management in asymptomatic patients with
ⱖ60% stenosis and low perioperative risk.
Weak Recommendation ⫹ Low Quality Evidence:
e) We suggest carotid stenting as a potential alternative
treatment to carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic
patients with ⱖ50% stenosis and high operative perioperative risk.
f) We suggest that carotid artery stenting is inappropriate for
asymptomatic patients with carotid artery stenosis. Possible
exceptions may include patients with acceptable medical

Hobson et al 485

risk who present with severe carotid artery stenoses (ⱖ80%)
and high anatomic risk for carotid endarterectomy (as
defined above) but with compelling anatomy for stenting.
Practice guidelines can be only as robust as their evidence basis. In the absence of high quality, reliable data,
clinical decisions must be based on lower quality data and
on clinical experience, judgment, values, and preferences.
The GRADE system allows us to separate the strength of
our recommendations from the quality of our supporting
data. The authors of this article recognize that the data
from which these guidelines were formulated are imperfect
and that our values played a significant role in guideline
formulation. Furthermore, the huge variability among patients with cerebrovascular disease, both in their anatomic
and physiologic features, makes application of guidelines
problematic.