50%?
2.1. We recommend CEA over TF-CAS in low- and
standard-risk patients with >50% symptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Level of recommendation: grade
1 (strong); quality of evidence: A (high).

3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention
for patients presenting with acute stroke? Management of acute neurologic syndrome:
3.1. In patients with recent stable stroke (modiﬁed Rankin scale score 0-2), we recommend carotid revascularization for symptomatic patients with >50%
stenosis to be performed as soon as the patient is
neurologically stable after 48 hours but deﬁnitely
before 14 days after the onset of symptoms. Level of
recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
3.2. In patients undergoing revascularization within the
ﬁrst 14 days after the onset of symptoms, we recommend CEA rather than carotid stenting. Level of
recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
3.3. We recommend against revascularization, regardless
of the extent of stenosis for patients who experienced a disabling stroke, have a modiﬁed Rankin
scale score of $3, whose area of infarction is >30%
of the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery territory, or
who have altered consciousness to minimize the
risk of postoperative parenchymal hemorrhage.
These patients can be reevaluated for revascularization later if their neurologic recovery is satisfactory. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: C (low).
4. Screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic patients
4A. Is screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis recommended for the general population?
4.1. We recommend against routine screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis in individuals without cerebrovascular symptoms or signiﬁcant
risk factors for carotid artery disease. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B
(moderate).
4B. Is screening for carotid stenosis recommended for
high-risk asymptomatic patients?
4.2. In selected asymptomatic patients who are at an
increased