 factors. There is a
tremendous amount of redundancy in the mesenteric circulation, and, accordingly, the symptoms of CMI do not
typically develop unless both the CA and SMA have hemodynamically signiﬁcant lesions (>70%). However, it is
possible to have symptoms consistent with CMI and disease isolated to a single mesenteric vessel, typically the
SMA. MAOD, in contradistinction to CMI, is relatively common and affects a large percentage of patients with peripheral vascular and aneurysmal disease. Patients with CMI
typically present with postprandial abdominal pain, weight
loss, and food fear. The differential diagnosis for this clinical
presentation is quite extensive and includes gastrointestinal malignancies ﬁrst and foremost. Accordingly, the diagnostic workup should exclude other gastrointestinal causes

and potentially include an esophagogastroduodenoscopy,
colonoscopy, abdominal ultrasound examination, and
abdominal CT scan. The diagnosis of CMI requires the
appropriate clinical presentation and the presence of signiﬁcant MAOD. Neither physical examination nor routine
laboratory studies are particularly helpful and, unfortunately, there is no well-accepted functional test that is sufﬁciently sensitive or speciﬁc. Mesenteric DUS examination
is an excellent screening test for MAOD, and CTA is the
deﬁnitive imaging test and has largely replaced catheterbased arteriography.
Detailed justiﬁcation
The blood ﬂow to the gastrointestinal tract is provided
via the CA, SMA, and IMA with collateral contributions
via the internal iliac artery, most notably the hemorrhoidal arteries. The gastroduodenal and pancreaticoduodenal arteries provide connections between the CA and
SMA. The marginal artery of Drummond and the arc of
Riolan (meandering or central anastomotic artery lying
in the mesentery close to the inferior mesenteric vein)
connect the inferior mesenteric (via the left colic artery)
to the superior mesenteric (via the middle colic artery).16
The disruption of these collateral networks, for whatever
reason (eg, IMA ligation during exposure of the infrarenal
aorta), can lead to AMI and CMI in patients with MAOD.
Because of this well-developed network of collaterals,
most patients usually do not develop symptoms of