 to
the topic. On- or off-site mentoring may be required,
depending on the complexity of the new procedure
and experience of the operator, and will need to be
determined on a case-by-case basis. Physicians already
trained and credentialed in endovascular interventions
can use many new and modiﬁed devices, however,
without additional special certiﬁcation. Proctoring for
certain new procedures may be desirable (http://www.
sts.org/about-sts/policies/proctoring-policy).
The SVS proposes the following guidelines regarding
training requirements for new open and endovascular
vascular procedures.
1. Training requirements for new endovascular procedures at a given hospital, including cognitive training
in disease management and patient care, should be
the same for all interventionalists, regardless of

1342

Calligaro et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
May 2018

specialty and regardless of whether they are applying
for new vascular privileges or are already credentialed
in vascular procedures at that hospital. We recognize
that training requirements for certain procedures
may vary across specialties and have addressed this
issue in other sections.3
2. The deﬁnition of a “new” procedure changes with time.
Societies may accumulate data providing a basis for
performing new procedures at later dates. For
example, criteria were previously proposed speciﬁcally
for TEVAR and carotid stenting at a time when these
procedures were considered new (see earlier section,
Training Requirements for Vascular Surgery Trainees).
Now these procedures are performed frequently in
many institutions and are an integral part of all
accredited vascular surgery training programs. Other
procedures, such as fenestrated aortic grafts, renal angioplasty and stenting, visceral artery angioplasty and
stenting, catheter-based thrombolysis, and intravascular ultrasound-directed venous stenting, are also
routinely performed in many hospitals. Whereas other
societies have created criteria for credentialing for
some of these procedures, consensus statements are
lacking for most. There may be a role for further intersocietal criteria in the future.
3. Training requirements should be determined by
frequency and complexity of the new procedures,
industry requirements, and standards set by societies
and by individual hospitals already performing these
