 in the arm as possible where a palpable pulse is
identified to preserve more proximal sites of inflow for
future accesses. Therefore, when a radial artery pulse is
palpable, an autogenous radial– basilic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial artery pulse is nonpalpable
but the ulnar artery pulse is palpable, an autogenous ulnar–
basilic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial and
ulnar artery pulses are nonpalpable at the wrist, a more
proximal segment can be used if it is patent. Finally, if the
brachial artery pulse is palpable, an autogenous brachial–
basilic forearm looped transposition is performed.
When forearm autogenous accesses are exhausted, the
surgeon and patient may opt to perform a prosthetic forearm access before proceeding to the upper arm to perform
an autogenous access. Of note, and as it is indicated in
Guideline 4, the committee made this one exception to the
rule of all-autogenous access. The committee suggested
that the access surgeon presents the patient with the choice
of either performing a forearm prosthetic access before
moving to the upper arm to perform an autogenous access
or placing the upper arm autogenous access primarily before placement of forearm prosthetic. Sources of arterial
inflow for forearm prosthetic AV access also include the
radial and brachial artery.
Similar to an autogenous access, the prosthetic access
should originate from an arterial inflow as distally in the arm
as possible where a normal palpable pulse is identified to
preserve more proximal arteries for future accesses. Therefore, when the radial artery pulse is palpable and is of a good
quality, a prosthetic radial–antecubital forearm straight access
is performed. If the radial artery pulse is nonpalpable and the
brachial artery pulse is, a prosthetic brachial–antecubital
forearm loop access is performed. Care should be paid not
to cross the elbow for venous outflow to protect upper arm
veins for future autogenous access. Patients should be told
that this forearm prosthetic access is a “bridge” to an
autogenous access. The nephrologist should be informed
to minimize the number of attempts to salvage the access
with endovascular means to avoid ruining