rupture. The risk for rupture or dissection is variable and
ranges from 19% to 53% in some of the case report series.45 Surgical intervention should be considered when
the diameter of the diverticulum exceeds 30 mm or the
diameter of the descending aorta adjacent to the
diverticulum exceeds 50 mm.46-48 Histologic studies
demonstrated the presence of cystic medial necrosis in
the diverticulum wall, which would explain the reported
high rates of AD and rupture associated with these
diverticula.
Tumors. Primary malignant tumors of the aorta are
extremely rare and exhibit enormous histologic heterogeneity.49 They have been described as three distinct
morphologic types: intraluminal, intimal, and adventitial.
Most of the cases are sarcomas, followed by malignant
ﬁbrous histiocytomas. Although intra-aortic biopsy is
possible, these tumors are rarely expected or diagnosed
before surgical exploration.

Practice Statement: There is a relative lack of highquality, long-term evidence on the use of TEVAR in the
setting of arteritis,50 aortoesophageal51 and aortobronchial41 ﬁstulas, coarctation,43 Kommerell diverticulum,52
and tumors.53 Therefore, no strong recommendations
can be made. However, it is recognized that there are
numerous institutional and database reports documenting the use of TEVAR in these settings. It is likely, especially in the setting of a ruptured thoracic aorta in
association with these various pathologic processes,
that TEVAR can play a lifesaving role. Finally, there is
also likely to be an advantage to TEVAR in these pathologic processes in the noninfectious setting over the infectious ones. (Ungraded good practice statement)

DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION OF THORACIC AORTIC
DISEASE
Thoracic aortic disease is increasingly an incidental
ﬁnding on studies performed for other indications
because of the increasing use of cross-sectional imaging.
Unlike abdominal ultrasound for screening for AAAs, there
is no low-cost modality that can be used to image DTA disease. Thus, there is more reliance on the patient’s history,
including familial history, as well as