From the Society for Vascular Surgery

Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines for
atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the lower
extremities: Management of asymptomatic disease
and claudication
Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Guidelines Writing Group: Michael S. Conte, MD, (Co-Chair),a
Frank B. Pomposelli, MD, (Co-Chair),b Daniel G. Clair, MD,c Patrick J. Geraghty, MD,d
James F. McKinsey, MD,e Joseph L. Mills, MD,f Gregory L. Moneta, MD,g M. Hassan Murad, MD,h
Richard J. Powell, MD,i Amy B. Reed, MD,j Andres Schanzer, MD,k and Anton N. Sidawy, MD, MPH,l San
Francisco, Calif; Boston and Worcester, Mass; Cleveland, Ohio; St. Louis, Mo; New York, NY; Tucson, Ariz; Portland,
Ore; Rochester, Minn; Lebanon, NH; Hershey, Pa; and Washington, D.C.
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) continues to grow in global prevalence and consumes an increasing amount of resources in the
United States health care system. Overall rates of intervention for PAD have been rising steadily in recent years. Changing
demographics, evolution of technologies, and an expanding database of outcomes studies are primary forces inﬂuencing clinical
decision making in PAD. The management of PAD is multidisciplinary, involving primary care physicians and vascular specialists
with varying expertise in diagnostic and treatment modalities. PAD represents a broad spectrum of disease from asymptomatic
through severe limb ischemia. The Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Practice Guidelines committee reviewed the
evidence supporting clinical care in the treatment of asymptomatic PAD and intermittent claudication (IC). The committee
made speciﬁc practice recommendations using the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation Assessment, Development and
Evaluation) system. There are limited Level I data available for many of the critical questions in the ﬁeld, demonstrating the
urgent need for comparative effectiveness research in PAD. Emphasis is placed on risk factor modiﬁcation, medical therapies, and
broader use of exercise programs to improve cardiovascular health and functional performance. Screening for PAD appears of
unproven beneﬁt at present. Revascularization for IC is an appropriate therapy for selected patients with disabling symptoms