have direct supporting evidence, but had ample indirect
evidence and would be considered by many surgeons as
surgical principles.
Diagnostic evaluation
Recommendations.
1. In patients with abdominal pain, weight loss, and
food fear, we recommend an expedited workup to
exclude gastrointestinal malignancies and other potential causes. The expedited workup may include
an esophagogastroduodenoscopy, a colonoscopy, an
abdominal CT scan, and an abdominal ultrasound examination. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
2. We recommend making a diagnosis of CMI in patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and the
presence of signiﬁcant stenoses (>70%) within the celiac axis and SMA. The diagnosis maybe also made in
patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and a
signiﬁcant stenosis (>70%) in either the celiac axis or
SMA alone. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend using the mesenteric duplex ultrasound (DUS) examination as the preferred screening
test for MAOD. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We recommend using CTA as the preferred deﬁnitive
imaging test for MAOD unless unusual anatomic features obscure the anatomy such that a catheterbased arteriogram may be required. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate) (1B)
Rationale and background
CMI is caused by the failure to achieve adequate postprandial intestinal blood ﬂow. This condition usually results
from the presence of atherosclerotic occlusive disease at
the origin of the mesenteric arteries and is associated
with the typical atherosclerotic risk factors. There is a
tremendous amount of redundancy in the mesenteric circulation, and, accordingly, the symptoms of CMI do not
typically develop unless both the CA and SMA have hemodynamically signiﬁcant lesions (>70%). However, it is
possible to have symptoms consistent with CMI and disease isolated to a single mesenteric vessel, typically the
SMA. MAOD, in contradistinction to CMI, is relatively common and affects a