ysms are being diagnosed with increased frequency.
These detailed imaging studies are allowing an
improved ability for vascular surgeons to identify asymptomatic lesions and an enhanced potential for preoperative or preprocedural planning and elective treatment of
these aneurysms. Improvements in endovascular therapies have also allowed an enhanced ability for treatment
of these often anatomically complex lesions with a large
variety of individualized and precise catheter-based
therapies.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

9S

Volume 72, Number 1S

However, the natural history of visceral aneurysms
and their potential for rupture or other complications
are relatively poorly deﬁned because of their overall
scarcity. The majority of the reports in the literature
consist of only one or two cases. Larger institutional
case series have been reported but rarely consist of
more than a compilation of several dozen cases. The
recent increase in the reports of visceral aneurysms in
the literature is mainly related to an escalation in the
use of novel and varied catheter-based techniques for
their treatment. Whereas much valuable information
may be gained from reading these individual reports,
they may be inherently predisposed toward a representation of unusual presentations and successful outcomes. However, it is clear even from these numerous
case reports that a signiﬁcant proportion of visceral artery aneurysms present with rupture; therefore, an
aggressive approach to their diagnosis and management certainly seems warranted.
It is somewhat difﬁcult to precisely characterize
which factors in an individual aneurysm will predispose to rupture. Splenic artery aneurysms are thought
to have a particular tendency toward rupture, especially during the third trimester of pregnancy.4 Visceral
artery pseudoaneurysms certainly have a higher
rupture potential than true aneurysms. Although larger
size would certainly seem to imply a higher chance of
rupture, small visceral aneurysms can rupture as well.
There is no ﬁrm evidence that calciﬁcation in a visceral
artery aneurysm protects against a risk of rupture.
When it occurs, rupture of visceral artery aneurysms
can occur into the peritoneal cavity, retroperitoneal
space, gastrointestinal tract, or biliary tract. Free
rupture into the peritoneal cavity resulting in hemoperitoneum