 by clinicians and accepted by
patients with a high degree of confidence. GRADE 2
recommendations are made when the benefits and risks are
more closely matched and are more dependent on specific
clinical scenarios. In general, physician and patient preference plays a more important role in the decision-making
process in these circumstances.
In addition to the GRADE of recommendation, the
level of evidence to support the recommendation is noted.
Evidence is divided into 3 categories: A (high quality), B
(moderate quality), and C (low quality). Conclusions based
on high-quality evidence are unlikely to change with further study, those based on moderate-quality evidence are
more likely to be affected by further investigation, and
those based on low-quality evidence are the least supported
by current data and the most likely to be subject to change
in the future.

Ricotta et al e3

It is important to note that a GRADE 1 recommendation can be made based on low-quality (C) evidence by the
effect on patient outcome. For example, although there are
little data on the efficacy of CEA in asymptomatic patients
with ⬍60% stenosis, one can recommend with confidence
that CEA not be performed in these patients. A full explanation of the GRADE system is presented in the recent
article by Murad et al14 referenced earlier. It is important to
note that this grading system differs somewhat from the
one used in the recent American College of Cardiology
(ACC)/AHA Task force report.13
Each member of the committee was assigned responsibility for compiling information pertinent to a specific area
of the document. These data were distributed to all members for review, and each area was subsequently discussed in
conference calls. A consensus of the recommendation and
level of evidence to support it was reached. Each recommendation in this document represents the unanimous
opinion of the task force. Although some recommendations are GRADE 2 with Level 3 data, the task force felt it
appropriate to present these as the unanimous opinion of its
members regarding optimal current management. This was
done with the recognition that such recommendations
could change in the future but that it was unlikely that new
data would emerge soon. These guidelines are likely to be a
“living document” that will change as techniques are further refined, technology develops, medical therapy improves, and new data emerge.
I. IND