 suggested as
measures of inflow adequacy and may be helpful in selected
cases. Calculating the resistance index or simple ultrasound
observation of changes in the arterial waveform during a
clinched fist maneuver (reactive hyperemia) predicts the
vessel’s ability to accommodate the anticipated marked
increase in flow required for a successful AV access.54,59
Arteriography. Arteriography may be useful in patients
with significant peripheral vascular disease, particularly in
those individuals with suspected proximal arterial occlusive
lesions where pre-AV access interventional procedures
might both identify and treat the problem site, gaining
adequate arterial inflow for the eventual autogenous AV
access. In patients nearing dialysis, the risk of contrastinduced nephropathy must be carefully weighed against the
need for an AV access that will mature when needed by the
time of dialysis initiation. Renal protective strategies such as
hydration, limiting contrast, or using carbon dioxide as
contrast agents minimize risk to the patient.60 Administration of bicarbonate or N-acetyl cysteine may further moderate the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy.61,62 Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) for preoperative
arterial vascular access evaluation has not replaced arteriography or ultrasound imaging but may be useful and appropriate in selected cases. Gadolinium may cause nephrogenic
systemic fibrosis in patients with advanced CKD or dialysis
and therefore should be used only after carefully weighing
the risks and benefits of alternative imaging studies.63
Venous procedural evaluations specific to vascular access. Noninvasive studies. As discussed the preceding clinical examination, ultrasound imaging has become the common standard in preparation for an AV access
procedure.54,64 An ultrasound scan is optimally performed
by the surgeon during the initial office visit or it may be
done by a technologist.65 Ultrasound examination discovers potential autogenous AV access sites that are overlooked by physical examination. Silva et al57 found ultrasound evaluation increased AV fistula construction from
14% to 63%. Ultrasound venous mapping, which is performed with and without a venous pressure tourniquet in
place, evaluates vein diameter, patency, continuity, and
distensibility of the planned venous outflow conduit. Both
distensibility and venous diameter have been found to
independently