 for patients with lower extremity PAD is clearly appropriate,
considering the markedly increased risk of occult disease.
Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.
Multiple reports have documented a markedly increased
prevalence of occult carotid artery stenosis in patients
with CAD, especially in those undergoing coronary artery
bypass surgery.84,85,98-107 Two direct comparative studies
regarding screening of CABG patients using the actual
outcomes of stroke and death have been previously
discussed in detail.84,85,98-107 An increased prevalence of
carotid stenosis has also been documented in patients
undergoing coronary angioplasty.108 Among patients

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

15S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Fig 4. Comparative studies. CI, Conﬁdence interval; RR,
relative risk.

undergoing coronary artery bypass, the presence of a
carotid bruit and diabetes mellitus increased the predictive value.104 Additionally, carotid stenosis in coronary
bypass patients has been noted to be a risk factor for
perioperative stroke.104 Considering the prevalence of
occult carotid disease, carotid screening for patients
undergoing coronary artery bypass is believed to be
appropriate. However, the evidence in favor of screening
for patients with documented CAD without plans for
coronary artery bypass procedures is less robust.
Asymptomatic patients with an audible carotid
bruit. The ﬁnding of an audible bruit in the neck is
believed to be a sign of turbulent blood ﬂow at the bifurcation and of carotid artery atherosclerosis. However, this
physical ﬁnding is not particularly speciﬁc or sensitive for
clinically signiﬁcant carotid artery stenosis. In a reported
meta-analysis of studies describing the relationship between carotid bruit and carotid stenosis, 28 prospective
cohort studies involving >17,000 patients were
analyzed.109 The stroke rate was 1.6 per 100 patient-years
for those with bruits compared with 1.3 per 100 patientyears for those without carotid