
of preventing ulcer recurrence using compression must

26

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

be considered. The ﬁrst of these is the technical ability of
the patient to actually don and doff the stocking
properly. This may be difﬁcult because of the patient’s
size, strength, or arthritic conditions that may make
manipulation of the heavy stocking impractical. The
second factor is the extent of the increase in venous pressure and resulting edema of the leg. This is particularly
true for patients who are morbidly obese and in whom
the leg venous pressure is very high because of increased
intra-abdominal pressure from large abdominal girth.
This pressure increase will overwhelm an elastic product
and result in recurrent edema, with a high risk for recurrent ulceration. Aids for donning and dofﬁng stockings
are often awkward, and the techniques required can
be difﬁcult to master.
Velcro compression devices are an alternative to elastic
stockings because their inelastic nature produces higher
compression during ambulation, which in turn reduces
venous stasis and edema. The adjustable nature of these
devices also allows tightening as the leg volume
decreases as well as loosening when discomfort occurs.
Finally, these devices are easy to apply and remove,
even in patients with physical limitations.53,64-67
Multiple studies have been published addressing
different aspects of compression therapy in patients
with open and healed venous ulcers. Current evidence
supports using compression for ulcer healing.57,58 None
of the publications to date speciﬁcally address the role
and effectiveness of compression after treatment of superﬁcial veins in patients with venous ulcers. In the
absence of such data, it is reasonable and safe to follow
recommendations for the entire population of patients
with venous ulcers, namely, that compression therapy
should be recommended to increase venous leg ulcer
healing rates and to decrease recurrence rates.
Leg ulcers frequently have mixed etiology. An important etiologic comorbidity that is relevant to compression therapy is peripheral artery disease, which can
coexist in up to 25% of patients with venous ulcers.5962
Use of compression in