 of historic interest and should be
used in rare instances, when duplex scanning or Doppler
studies are not available. Distal palpation and proximal
percussion of the saphenous vein, however, are useful tests
to suggest valvular incompetence.
Skin lesions, such as capillary malformations, tumors,
onychomycosis, or excoriations, should be noted and a
complete pulse examination performed to exclude underlying peripheral arterial disease. An aneurysmal saphenous vein can be misdiagnosed as a femoral hernia or
vice versa. The presence of a longer limb, lateral varicosity noted soon after birth, and associated capillary malformations are tip-offs for congenital venous malformation (Klippel-Trénaunay syndrome),74,75 whereas edema
of the dorsum of the foot, squaring of the toes, thick
skin, and nonpitting edema are signs of chronic
lymphedema. The physical examination can be complemented by a handheld Doppler examination, although
the latter does not replace evaluation of the venous
circulation with color duplex scanning.
The Guideline Committee recommends using the
basic CEAP classification76,77 (see Classification of
chronic venous disorders later in the Guidelines) to document the clinical class, etiology, anatomy, and pathophysiology (CEAP) of CVD (Tables II and III). We also
recommend use of the revised Venous Clinical Severity
Score (VCSS)78 to grade the severity of CVD (see Outcome assessment; Table IV).
The aim of the clinical evaluation is not only to determine the presenting signs and symptoms and the type of
venous disease (primary, secondary, congenital) but also to
exclude other etiologies, including peripheral arterial disease, rheumatoid disease, infection, tumor, or allergies. The
physician should also establish the degree of disability
caused by the venous disease and its impact on the patient’s
QOL.

Table II. The CEAP classification
CEAP
1. Clinical
classification
C0
C1
C2
C3
C4a
C4b
C5
C6
CS

CA
2. Etiologic
classification
Ec
Ep
Es
En
3. Anatomic
classification
