 access
placement.
In addition, in recommending the use of autogenous
accesses first, except as stated in recommendation 4, the
committee did not favor the use of prosthetic access despite
features that may favor its use such as higher reimbursement, ready availability, and shorter time to first use. However, the committee would like to point out that in the push
to perform all autogenous AV access, substandard veins are
sometimes used for autogenous accesses, taking a long time
to mature and thereby subjecting the patient to placement
of catheters for hemodialysis. Many believe that catheters
should be avoided at all cost, even if a prosthetic AV access
is used, which makes the construction of autogenous access
desirable but not always optimal.19 In addition, the committee placed higher value on avoiding infection, arterial
steal, ischemia, and other complications known to occur
with higher frequency in association with lower extremity
access placement.
2.3. Technical remarks
Various configurations of AV accesses, autogenous and
prosthetic, are described at the end of this document. We
describe here the strategies we suggest to optimize the use
of various access sites in order to provide the hemodialysis
patient with the safest and the longest life span on hemodialysis possible.
Forearm. For autogenous forearm access, use of the
cephalic vein is preferred to the basilic vein secondary to its
ease of access for dialysis, with minimal need for dissection,
long incisions, and possible need for vein transpositions.
Possible sites of arterial inflow include the entire radial
artery from the posterior branch to its junction with the
ulnar at the brachial bifurcation, and the brachial artery.
The ulnar artery is usually not the first arterial option due to
its distance from the cephalic vein.
The access is placed as distally in the forearm as possible
where a normal palpable pulse is identified to preserve more
proximal sites of inflow for future accesses. Therefore, in
patients with a palpable posterior branch of the radial artery
pulse, an autogenous posterior radial branch– cephalic direct wrist access (snuffbox) should be considered. In patients with a nonpalpable posterior branch of the radial
artery pulse but a palpable radial artery pulse at the wrist, an
autogenous radial– cep