 accurate in identifying calcification but less reliable
in describing carotid plaque morphology, specifically the
lipid component, or ulceration. CTA appears less reliable
than DUS imaging or MRA for assessing plaque morphology.82 Other limitations of this technique include cost
(compared with DUS), contrast exposure, and the added
concern of radiation exposure. In addition, a large calcium
burden can limit the ability to distinguish contrast from
calcium during postprocessing imaging.

e8 Ricotta et al

D. Catheter-based DSA
Many authorities still consider carotid conventional
digital angiography to be the gold standard against all other
imaging modalities in patients with extracranial cerebrovascular disease. Measurement of carotid stenosis using DSA is
generally done using the NASCET method.2 Conventional
angiography is generally reserved for patients with conflicting imaging studies before CEA or in patients considered
for CAS. DSA provides high-quality imaging that is accurate, objective, and easy to interpret. It can identify lesions
from the aortic arch to the intracranial vessels. Major limitations of angiography that make it inappropriate as a
screening modality include its cost and associated risks,
specifically of stroke.83-85 Overall, DSA is most useful in
patients when less invasive imaging studies produce conflicting results. When DUS imaging is equivocal, DSA is
preferred over CT and MR in evaluating patients with renal
dysfunction (by minimizing contrast load), obesity, or indwelling ferromagnetic material, which render CTA or
MRA technically inadequate or difficult.
E. Comparison of CDUS, MRA, CTA, and DSA
The U.K. Health Technology Assessment concluded
that although contrast-enhanced MRA was the most accurate imaging modality overall, it was limited by unavailability, inaccessibility, and delays. Therefore, they concluded
that color DUS imaging remained the preferred imaging
modality for identifying patients with 70% to 99% stenosis.86 As such, CDUS is the preferred imaging modality for
the identification of asymptomatic stenosis.
This recommendation was based on several factors,
including low cost, a much higher number of strokes likely
to be prevented in the long-term by the rapid availability of
CDUS imaging in contrast with other imaging