ms (PAAs) are the most common type of
peripheral arterial aneurysm with a reported prevalence
rate of 0.007% in men, and 0.001% in women. Patients
with PAAs are at increased risk of concomitant abdominal
aortic aneurysms (33%) and contralateral PAA disease
(50%).1,2 Given the anatomic location of the popliteal
artery, untreated aneurysmal disease of this artery can
lead to complications, including limb loss.
Treatments of PAAs can be performed using endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) or open aneurysm repair
From the Evidence-based Practice Center, Mayo Clinic Rochester, Rochestera;
and the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Boston Medical Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston.b
Partially funded by the Society for Vascular Surgery.
Author conﬂict of interest: none.
Additional material for this article may be found online at www.jvascsurg.org.
Correspondence: M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH, Mayo Clinic, 200 1st Street SW,

(OAR). OAR typically involves bypass around the aneurysm, aneurysm ligation or aneurysmorhaphy. EVAR involves placing a stent graft across the aneurysm.
Thrombolysis is an adjunct treatment used with both
therapeutic strategies if acute limb ischemia is present.
Although endovascular repair is less invasive than surgical bypass, its durability has been questioned. Therefore,
empirical evidence comparing the long-term outcomes
of OAR with EVAR remains unclear. Consequently, there
is equipoise and a lack of consensus about the comparative effectiveness of either approach in managing PAAs.
The Society for Vascular Surgery has convened a committee of experts to develop clinical practice guidelines
on the management of PAAs.3 To support these
guidelines, we conducted a systematic review and
meta-analysis to summarize the best available evidence
comparing the efﬁcacy of OAR with EVAR in the
treatment of PAAs, as well as the natural history of PAAs.

Rochester, MN 55905 (e-mail: murad.mohammad@mayo.edu).
The editors and reviewers of this article have no relevant