
vascular testing, of which the cornerstone is the measurement of the ABI. If the ABI is $1.4 secondary to

noncompressibility of the arteries from calciﬁcation, a
toe-brachial index is a useful alternative because the digital
arteries are frequently not calciﬁed. A toe-brachial index
value of #0.7 is indicative of hemodynamically signiﬁcant
arterial insufﬁciency.38 Although not necessary in all patients, further noninvasive testing with segmental pressures
and pulse volume recordings can be helpful in objectively
quantifying the magnitude of the deﬁcit in perfusion and
aiding in localizing the level of arterial obstruction.
In the setting of compelling symptoms and normal
results on noninvasive vascular testing at rest, obtaining
an ABI with exercise can be helpful. A challenge for
establishing diagnostic criteria for the exercise ABI is
the heterogeneity of the protocols used in vascular laboratories.40-42 In general, this test is performed using a
standardized treadmill protocol that asks patients to
walk at a predetermined speed for a maximum of 5 minutes.38 During the test, patients are asked to tell the
personnel when they start to feel pain in the legs. Patients are encouraged to ﬁnish the entire test. Immediately after getting off of the treadmill, the exercise ABI
is calculated. A drop in the ABI to a value #0.9 is indicative of a hemodynamically signiﬁcant arterial obstruction.38 Other more speciﬁc criteria include a drop of
30 mm Hg or 20% of the baseline ABI with exercise,
and a delayed (>3 minutes) recovery.
Additional imaging modalities that can more precisely
localize arterial lesionsdarterial duplex, computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance (MR) angiography (MRA), and contrast arteriographydshould be
reserved for patients in whom revascularization treatment
is being considered. For those patients with asymptomatic
PAD or IC who are not appropriate candidates for revascularization, the costs and potential risks associated with
anatomic studies are not warranted.

Recommendations: Diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease (PAD)

2.1.

2.2.
2.3.

2.4.

2.5.

We recommend using the ABI as the ﬁrst-line noninvasive test