 intervention is increased over elective
surgery for neurologic symptoms, but not as much as for
patients with stroke in evolution. CEA is preferred to
CAS in these patients based on the presumptive increased embolic potential of bifurcation plaque in this
clinical situation (GRADE 1 Level of Evidence C).
4. For acute stroke after CEA, emergent imaging (ultrasound
or fast CTA) is indicated to evaluate the endarterectomy
site. When imaging suggests thrombosis, is indeterminate,
or not available, immediate operative re-exploration is
indicated (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
5. When the endarterectomy site is patent, other modalities such as CT and angiography should be used to
better identify the cause of the stroke. If CT excludes
intracranial hemorrhage, anticoagulation is reasonable
until a definitive decision regarding the appropriate
diagnosis and therapy can be made (GRADE 2, Level of
Evidence C). The committee acknowledged the lack of
robust data in this small group of patients but was
unanimous in its endorsement of this recommendation
based on the data available and the low likelihood that
new data would emerge in the near future.
6. No firm recommendations can be made on treatment of
stent thrombosis associated with CAS. It is reasonable
to attempt to restore patency by use of chemical lysis or
clot extraction (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). The
committee acknowledged the lack of robust data in this
small group of patients but was unanimous in its endorsement of this recommendation based on the data
available and the low likelihood that new data would
emerge in the near future.
B. ICA occlusion with persistent symptoms and
external carotid stenosis
Some patients with documented chronic occlusion of
the ICA may develop recurrent neurologic or ocular symptoms. Neurologic symptoms may be secondary to embolization from the distal aspect of the occluded ICA segment,
intrinsic disease of the external carotid artery, or from
embolization from the proximal aspect of the occluded
ICA. Ocular ischemia may arise from stenosis of the external carotid artery.258 These patients may be managed by
endarterectomy of the common and external carotid artery
with transection and flush ligation of the I