22-27,29 and one case-control study.28
Neither the RCTs12,13,22-27,29 nor the case-control
study28 included a group of patients that did not
receive compression therapy. Most practitioners
routinely recommend compression therapy after surgical or thermal ablation of varicose veins, with the tacit
assumption that patients will derive beneﬁt from

compression. In the published studies, investigators
did not test whether compression was beneﬁcial and
only tested different levels of compression that should
be maintained after a procedure. Similar ﬁndings are
evident in the two previously published guidelines.
The guidelines of the European Society for Vascular
Surgery20 made the following recommendation: “Postprocedural compression is recommended after superﬁcial venous surgery, endovenous truncal ablation, and
sclerotherapy [Class I, Level A].” The National Institute
for Health and Care Excellence guidelines21 stated: “As
there was no convincing evidence for using or not using
compression therapy the GDG [Guideline Development
Group] felt they could not make a recommendation
not to use stockings at all post intervention and the
consensus was that in their clinical experience some
people post-surgery did feel beneﬁt from wearing
stockings. However, the GDG, taking into account the
cost of compression therapy, felt they could not recommend its long term use.” Their recommendation was,
“If offering compression bandaging or hosiery for use
after interventional treatment, do not use for more
than 7 days.”21
Based on these ﬁndings, any extrapolation of the available data in an attempt to answer the primary question
must be considered speculative. However, it would also
be imprudent to recommend against the use of
compression after saphenous ablation or stripping.
Taking the evidence as a whole, one might conclude
that some compression is better than none. The recommendation of this committee is as follows: When
possible, compression (elastic stockings or wraps) should
be used after surgical or thermal procedures to eliminate
varicose veins. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Five studies addressed the dosage and modality of
compression after saphenous vein ligation/stripping or
thermal ab