 to follow
recommendations for the entire population of patients
with venous ulcers, namely, that compression therapy
should be recommended to increase venous leg ulcer
healing rates and to decrease recurrence rates.
Leg ulcers frequently have mixed etiology. An important etiologic comorbidity that is relevant to compression therapy is peripheral artery disease, which can
coexist in up to 25% of patients with venous ulcers.5962
Use of compression in patients with signiﬁcantly
compromised arterial perfusion of the limb is considered unsafe. Data supporting use of modiﬁed compression with reduced compression pressure for healing of
mixed ulcers is limited to a few small studies.57,62,63
Therefore, the preferred practice is to limit the use of
compression to patients with an ankle-brachial
index exceeding 0.5 or if absolute ankle pressure is
>60 mm Hg.
After review of these data, we ﬁnd that the published
literature provides a low level of evidence. The need for
further studies with level 1 data with larger data sets is
clearly needed. In addition, the national databases that
are being developed may add future possibilities to
address some of these issues. Much of the literature
does not include patient-centered quality of life assessments of these interventions when, in truth, these

disease processes directly affect quality of life. These limitations offer opportunities for future research to help
focus future guidelines.

REFERENCES
1. Shami SK, Cheatle TR. Conventional sclerotherapy versus
surgery for varicose veins. In: Shami SK, Cheatle TR, editors.
Fegan’s compression sclerotherapy for varicose veins.
London: Springer-Verlag; 2003.
2. Guyatt G, Gutterman D, Baumann MH, Addrizzo-Harris D,
Hylek EM, Phillips B, et al. Grading strength of recommendations and quality of evidence in clinical guidelines: report
from an American College of Chest Physicians task force.
Chest 2006;129:174-81.
3. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for
Vascular Surgery including the