-Harris D, Hylek EM, Phillips B, et al. Grading strength of recommendations and quality of
evidence in clinical guidelines: Report from an American College of Chest Physicians task force. Chest 2006;129:174-81.

related to (1) the quality of evidence around that recommendation, (2) harm/beneﬁt ratio of the therapy (eg,
minimally invasive intervention with few morbid events
and a possible effect), and (3) patient preference. Every
effort has been made by the committee to make the process
of assigning the strength of the particular recommendation
as transparent as possible. By the GRADE system, the
strength of the recommendation or the extent to which
one can be conﬁdent that adherence to the recommendation will do more good than harm was divided into [1]
strong (we recommend) and [2] weak (we suggest), with
[1] favoring beneﬁt over harm and [2] with beneﬁts
closely balanced by the risk. The “quality of evidence” or
the extent to which conﬁdence in an estimate of effect is
sufﬁcient to support a particular recommendation was
graded [A], [B], or [C] by standard evidence-based methodologic criteria. It is well recognized that there may not
be studies of the highest evidentiary value for the diagnosis
and management of VLUs. When there are no comparable
alternatives to a recommendation or evidence is lacking,
the Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee has relied on
case series supplemented by the best opinion of a panel
of experts, and the recommendation was labeled [BEST

PRACTICE]. Such recommendations are not graded
but deemed by the guideline developers to be necessary
to provide a comprehensive guideline that encompasses
all the details needed for providing care for patients with
venous ulcers.34 In each section and in the comments to
each speciﬁc recommendation, we have attempted to
clearly link the recommendation to the evidence and its
quality and to point out where consensus techniques
have been used. Independent review of GRADE assignments made by the Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee
was also performed by the Knowledge and Evaluations
Research Unit at the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, Minn) to
corroborate proper strength of evidence and quality of evidence for each