1), and freedom from reintervention
(100% vs 72 6 9%; P ¼ .03) were all better for the
covered stents in the reintervention group. Notably,

van Dijk et al130 have published the study protocol for a
randomized
trial
(CoBaGI)
comparing
balloonexpandable covered vs balloon-expandable bare-metal
stents for CMI.
There may be a role for the use of embolic protection
devices for select patients undergoing endovascular
revascularization for CMI, similar to the scenario for carotid artery stenting or infrainguinal revascularization,
although the supporting evidence is limited.
Mendes et al131 reported their experience with the selective use (36%) of embolic protection devices among
170 patients undergoing revascularization for mesenteric ischemia (both CMI and AMI). The indications for
the devices included severe calciﬁcation, acute
thrombus, and total occlusions. Macroscopic debris
was detected in 66% of the ﬁlter patients although
distal emboli were detected in only 6%. There were
no technical complications associated with the ﬁlter
deployment or retrieval.
Endovascular revascularization for CMI can be associated with both local and systemic complications from
the intervention and underlying disease process.132,133
The perioperative complications were lower after the
endovascular approach and these lower rates partly
justify the endovascular-ﬁrst approach as detailed elsewhere in this article. Not surprisingly, access complications, contrast-induced renal insufﬁciency, target vessel
dissection, device failure, and arterial embolization have
all been reported after interventions for CMI.131,134-138
Patients should be maintained on antiplatelet agents
and a statin after intervention, both open and endovascular.139 The optimal antiplatelet agent regimen and
endovascular interventions for CMI remains unresolved.
Peeters Weem et al140 performed a meta-analysis to
examine the optimal antiplatelet regimen after endovascular arterial procedures. They did not support the use of
dual antiplatelet therapy (vs monotherapy) and actually
advised against it owing to an increased bleeding risk