 follow-up, in contrast
to the 90% to 95% rate observed after vein graft placement; a
de novo stenosis rate after EVT is w28%, compared with 5%
after vein grafting.249 The authors also observed stabilization
or resolution of stenosis after EVT occurred quite commonly
despite early abnormal ﬁndings. One important difference
observed compared with FP vein grafts is the poor correlation
between the degree of stenosis and the likelihood of occlusion
with EVT. Of the occlusions after EVT, 82% occurred when
minimal or moderate stenosis (PSV, 200-300 cm/s; Vr, 2-3)
had been detected before the intervention.249,250 Moreover,
had duplex ﬁndings been used as the sole indication for prophylactic reintervention, w30 patients would have undergone
a clinically unnecessary intervention.
Unlike vein graft stenosis, the natural history of stenosis
after EVT remains uncertain, making the prediction of which
lesion will progress to failure difﬁcult to determine. As previously stated, the lack of reliable data documenting the natural
history of the DUS-detected stenosis after EVT makes the
practice of prophylactic intervention on the basis of stenosis
highly questionable and possibly harmful. Moreover, there
may be differences with respect to the behavior of restenoses
after angioplasty alone compared with restenoses that
develop after stent placement. There are data suggesting
that durable salvage of thrombosed superﬁcial FP stents is
poor and that occlusion of such stents compromises runoff.
Ihnat et al,219 analyzing a series of 109 consecutive SFA
stents, reported that stent occlusion was associated with a signiﬁcant worsening of the SVS runoff score from 4.1 to 6.4,
amounting to the loss of one runoff vessel for each episode
of stent occlusion. If these ﬁnding are conﬁrmed in future
studies and accurate cutoff criteria predicting progression to

Recommendations: Surveillance after interventions for intermittent claudication (IC)

6.1.

6.2.
6.3.

We suggest that patients treated with open or endovascular interventions for IC be monitored