.2 months. The estimated pooled success rate
at 3 years was highest after EVLA (94%), followed by RFA
(84%), HL/S (78%), and foam sclerotherapy (77%). EVLA

was significantly superior to other treatment modalities in
abolition of the saphenous reflux. Foam therapy and RFA
were equally effective as surgery. The meta-analysis concluded that endovenous thermal ablations or foam sclerotherapy is at least as effective as surgery for treatment of
varicose veins.
Another large meta-analysis of the SVS and AVF on
varicose vein treatment is reported by Murad et al12 in this
issue the Journal of Vascular Surgery. The authors examined data from 8207 patients reported in 38 comparative
studies that included 29 RCTs. Each study included two or
more treatments, such as surgery, laser ablation, RFA, and
liquid or foam sclerotherapy. The meta-analysis found that
surgery was associated only with a nonsignificant reduction
in varicose vein recurrence, compared with sclerotherapy,
laser therapy, or RFA. Studies of laser therapy, RFA, and
foam sclerotherapy, however, demonstrated short-term effectiveness and safety. The authors concluded that lowquality evidence supports long-term safety and efficacy of
surgery for the treatment of varicose veins and that shortterm studies support the efficacy of less invasive treatments,
which are associated with less early disability and pain.
Results of these meta-analyses and data of several RCTs
and single-treatment cohort studies as well as a recent review336 and an editorial337 now question the continuing role
of open surgery with HL/S as the gold standard for treatment
of varicose veins. On the basis of the available data, the Joint
Committee of the SVS/AVF agreed that because of the
minimally invasive nature and similar or better early-term and
equivalent midterm results, endovenous thermal ablations
should be recommended over open surgery as the first line of
treatment of varicose veins associated with axial reflux. The
Committee also recognized that results of foam therapy have
improved but that they are not yet equivalent to those obtained after endovascular or open venous surgery. The Committee recommended that there was an