
events within a 24-hour period that do not respond to
antiplatelet therapy. High-grade stenosis of the carotid
bifurcation, often with associated ulceration or
thrombus, is a common ﬁnding. Brain imaging may not
reveal a signiﬁcant area of infarcted brain and there
may not be a large ischemic penumbra. Symptoms are
thought to arise from unstable carotid plaque with recurrent emboli despite antiplatelet therapy, or from unstable cerebral hemodynamics. Therapy in these patients
is directed at removing the causative lesion at the carotid
bifurcation.351-354
Some surgeons advocate heparin therapy during the
preoperative period if intracranial hemorrhage has been
excluded. There are no randomized trial data for determining whether intravenous heparin administration is superior to antiplatelet therapy in preventing early recurrent
stroke in patients with stroke in evolution or crescendo
TIAs. Two trials compared low-molecular-weight heparin
vs aspirin monotherapy in acute stroke patients where antiplatelet/antithrombotic therapy was commenced
within 48 hours of onset of symptoms. There was no significant difference in early outcomes between therapies in
either study. However, in one trial, the post hoc analysis
analyzed the incidence of neurologic deterioration at
10 days and found that low-molecular-weight heparin
therapy was associated with a signiﬁcant decrease in
ischemic stroke progression (5%) compared with aspirin

(12.7%) without an excess risk of cerebral hemorrhage.353
Another study demonstrated that early administration
of aspirin and clopidogrel, once parenchymal hemorrhage was excluded by CT scan and or MRI, was associated
with signiﬁcant reduction of spontaneous embolization
(21% to 5%) and a signiﬁcant reduction of recurrent events
before CEA (13% to 3%). In the absence of high-quality evidence, it may seem reasonable to offer heparin plus
aspirin or dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with a
recurrent TIAs or crescendo TIAs before urgent CEA.
Urgent CEA in these patients has been associated with
an increased risk of stroke compared with elective interventions.