 as their first access17 and that,
compared with late access construction (ⱕ1 month of
hemodialysis), early access construction (ⱖ4 months before
hemodialysis) was associated with lower risk of death and
sepsis, with relative risks (RRs) of 0.76 (95% confidence
interval [CI], 0.58-1.00) and 0.57 (95% CI, 0.41-0.79),
respectively.18 Introducing catheter use and sepsis into the
mortality model rendered the association nonsignificant. It
is difficult to predict the timing of hemodialysis onset in an
individual patient19; however, observations of the committee members suggest that access placement ⬍6 months
before initiation of hemodialysis is unlikely to allow adequate time for autogenous access maturation. Timely discussion and consultation could help avoid these adverse
outcomes.
In addition, according to unsystematic observations
and consensus of our committee, prosthetic AV accesses
should be placed no earlier than 3 to 6 weeks before an
anticipated need for hemodialysis in patients who are not
candidates for autogenous AV accesses. This is because the
lifespan of prosthetic accesses is limited by venous outflow
stenosis, which can develop at any time after access placement, regardless of when hemodialysis is initiated through
the access. In addition, the prosthetic access only needs 3 to
6 weeks for incorporation in the surrounding tissue, and at
many centers, a prosthetic access is used ⱕ2 weeks of
placement or earlier, depending on the type of prosthetic
access. This recommendation is consistent with those of
KDOQI and the FFBI.8,9
1.2. Values and preferences
In formulating a strong recommendation despite the
very low-quality evidence, the committee placed a higher
value on avoiding harm associated with late access construction and a lower value on potential harms and costs
associated with early referral and early access placement.
Early referral should encourage placement of autogenous
access; however, whether the autogenous access prevalence
rate can be increased to reach 66% by 2009, as desired by
CMS,8 is currently uncertain.

1.3. Technical remarks
It is generally agreed