 correlates with amputation risk and has been validated, but does not address
wound type or perfusion status. Consequently, none of
these systems is sufﬁciently comprehensive to allow accurate, baseline patient classiﬁcation and stratiﬁcation to serve
as the foundation for subsequent comparison of outcomes
among centers, patient subgroups, and revascularization
procedures. This issue is especially important in the setting
of diabetic foot ulcers.42-60

“CLI” criteria. Other patients with “CLI” may heal with
wound care alone, without revascularization, or may be
managed with analgesics for long periods of time while
retaining a functional limb. The new system we have developed dispenses with the term CLI and instead creates an
objective classiﬁcation of the threatened limb based on
the degree of ischemia, wound extent, gangrene, and infection. This updated Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS)
Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System
is intended to deﬁne the disease burden, analogous to
the tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) system for cancer
staging. It is not intended or designed to inﬂuence or
dictate treatment method, especially since treatment
modalities continue to evolve. The primary purpose of
this classiﬁcation is to provide more precise description of
the disease burden to allow accurate outcomes assessments
and comparisons between similar groups of patients and
alternative therapies. In addition, going forward, an
updated risk factor/comorbidity index and a simpler
anatomic classiﬁcation system will need to be added to
this disease burden classiﬁcation to aid in selection of the
best therapy for any given patient.
The need to reconsider how we classify the threatened
limb is clear. Ischemia, while of fundamental importance, is
but one component among a triad of major factors that
place a limb at risk for amputation. The proposed SVS
Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System
is based simply on grading each of the three major factors
(Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection [WIfI]). This classiﬁcation system is hereinafter referred to as SVS WIfI. It is
based on a scale from 0 to 3, where 0 represents none,