 of claudication symptoms. Adding tibial
angioplasty to a more proximal intervention to improve runoff
in the hope of improving patency has not been studied. The
durability of tibial angioplasty is worse than SFA angioplasty,
averaging <40% at 3 years221 in patients undergoing treatment for limb salvage, where it is most commonly performed.
The need for reintervention at this level is high, and persistent
failure after repeated attempts of reintervention with repeated
failure may result in CLI requiring a distal bypass for salvage
or major limb amputation. Isolated infrapopliteal interventions are not recommended for patients with IC.
FP revascularization: Surgery. The guidelines for
conservative management of IC have been previously discussed. However, it is important to recognize that the beneﬁts of medical therapy and exercise are actually quite
modest. In a recent prospective study, absolute walking distance improvement with a home-based exercise program,
the only type available to most patients, was <90 feet.222
The effect of such a modest improvement on functional
ability and QoL may be inadequate for many patients.

Conte and Pomposelli et al 25S

Bypass surgery has been a mainstay in the invasive treatment of IC for 5 decades, although much less frequently
used in the last 10 to 15 years with the evolution and rapid
expansion of catheter-based therapies (see above). The efﬁcacy of surgical bypass for the relief of claudication symptoms
is well established. A seminal report documented long-term
functional outcomes in 14 patients who underwent vein
bypass surgery for IC, demonstrating relief of symptoms
and improved exercise performance and self-reported community-based walking abilities.223 ABI improved in surgical
patients by nearly 0.4, peak treadmill walking time by 9 minutes, and pain-free walking time by >6 minutes. Questionnaire scores for walking distance improved by 203% and
walking speed by 130%. These improvements were not predicted from routine noninvasive testing alone. The authors
were among the ﬁrst to suggest that such functional status
outcomes should be measured directly.223
The perceived morbidity associated with open surgical
therapy for IC is an important factor in clinical decision making. As with any surgical procedure, the key