 antecubital fossa. The basilic
vein is identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa. The artery is identified within the proximal
portion of this incision or, if located far away, a second
longitudinal incision is made overlying the artery. The
basilic vein is tunneled superficially in a forearm loop to the
artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous radial–antecubital forearm indirect greater
saphenous translocation. This autogenous access is performed between the antecubital vein in the antecubital
fossa and the radial artery in the wrist using the great
saphenous vein as conduit. The antecubital vein is identified through a transverse incision in the antecubital fossa.
The radial artery is identified through a longitudinal incision overlying the palpable radial artery pulse. An appropriate length of great saphenous vein is harvested from the
lower extremity. The great saphenous vein is translocated
to the forearm in a superficial and lateral tunnel between
the antecubital vein and the radial artery to perform the two
anastomoses.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)–antecubital forearm indirect looped greater saphenous translocation. This autogenous access is performed between the antecubital vein and
the brachial or proximal radial artery located in the antecubital fossa using the great saphenous vein as conduit. The

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

antecubital vein and artery are identified through a transverse incision in the antecubital fossa. An appropriate
length of great saphenous vein is harvested from the lower
extremity. The great saphenous vein is translocated to the
forearm in a looped configuration between the antecubital
vein and brachial or proximal radial artery to perform the
two anastomoses.
Upper arm autogenous accesses. Upper arm accesses
have most commonly been based on the brachial artery for
inflow; however, the proximal radial artery is an excellent
choice for inflow as long as there is adequate length of vein
to support the additional 2