, with inconsistent use of measurement thresholds
and a lack of data examining the effect of combining
test outcomes. New technologies to develop optimal
tools and measures of foot perfusion for people with
DFU and PAD to guide revascularisation therapies would
be invaluable in guiding revascularisation strategies for
individuals and for determining when more aggressive
strategies are indicated.
Further questions. Which group of people with diabetes and a DFU, tissue loss, or gangrene most beneﬁt
from urgent revascularisation, and who may beneﬁt
from an initial expectant management?
The Writing Committee has made a Best Practice
Statement attempting to deﬁne which people are likely
to beneﬁt most from urgent vascular assessment and
revascularisation. Further studies to clarify person and
limb related factors are needed and such predictions
may be facilitated by new prediction methods such as
machine learning.146
Do newer endovascular revascularisation adjuncts and
techniques developed for infrapopliteal revascularisation
positively impact on patency rates and person centred
endpoints (amputation free survival, improved wound
healing, and health related quality of life) in those with
diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer?
A number of new technologies have been developed to
enhance patency of endovascular interventions,
including drug eluting balloons and stents, and bioresorbable vascular scaffolds and stents. Atherectomy
and lithotripsy devices have been developed to deal
with heavily calciﬁed lesions. Venous arterialisation has
also been introduced to attempt to revascularise those
with no option for revascularisation.147,148 The role and

indications for these interventions in the general population with CLTI, and in particular those with diabetes, remains to be clariﬁed.
Identify effective regenerative therapies (e.g., cell or
gene based) to improve foot perfusion in persons with
DFU and PAD who are not candidates for standard
revascularisation.
Angiogenesis (formation of new blood vessels from
existing ones) is important for the development of arterial collateral formation in response to arterial occlusion
and also for wound healing. Diabetes and hyperglycaemia are associated with impaired angiogenesis. A number of cell, gene, and protein based therapeutic
approaches have, and are, being tri