
affecting the management of patients with lower extremity varicose veins, using the patients, interventions, comparators,
and outcome system to answer critical questions. Part I discussed the role of duplex ultrasound scanning in the evaluation of varicose veins and treatment of superﬁcial truncal reﬂux. Part II focuses on evidence supporting the prevention
and management of varicose vein patients with compression, on treatment with drugs and nutritional supplements, on
evaluation and treatment of varicose tributaries, on superﬁcial venous aneurysms, and on the management of complications of varicose veins and their treatment. All guidelines were based on systematic reviews, and they were graded
according to the level of evidence and the strength of recommendations, using the GRADE method. All ungraded
Consensus Statements were supported by an extensive literature review and the unanimous agreement of an expert,
multidisciplinary panel. Ungraded Good Practice Statements are recommendations that are supported only by indirect
evidence. The topic, however, is usually noncontroversial and agreed upon by most stakeholders. The Implementation
Remarks contain technical information that supports the implementation of speciﬁc recommendations. This

From the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Gonda Vascular Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochestera; the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Sur-

Primary co-authors: Peter Gloviczki, MD, PhD, Peter F. Lawrence, MD, Mark H.
Meissner, MD, and Suman M. Wasan, MD.

gery, Department of Surgery, University of California, Los Angelesb; the

Additional material for this article may be found online at www.jvsvenous.org.

Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, Rex

Correspondence: Peter Gloviczki, MD, PhD, Division of Vascular and Endovascu-

Vascular Specialists, UNC Health, Raleighc; the Division of Vascular Surgery,

lar Surgery, Gonda Vascular Center, Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester,

University of Washington, Seattled; the Division of Vascular and Endovascular

MN 55905 (e-mail: gloviczki.peter@mayo.edu).

Surgery, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miamie; the Medical

Independent peer review and oversight was provided by the members