.75 mm), with a typically used slice thickness of around
1 mm, depending on scanner type and manufacturer.
Routine computed tomography (CT) scans are often performed in 3- to 5-mm cuts, but three-dimensional planning for endovascular intervention is best done with #2mm cuts.60 Given the acquisition method on most modern CTA equipment, images can often be reformatted to
thinner cuts if the original data set is still available to do so.
Ideally, CTA should provide aortic opaciﬁcation at a minimum of $250 Hounsﬁeld units, $300 Hounsﬁeld units uniformly being ideal. There is tremendous institutional
variation in how this is achieved. There is further variation
based on the patient’s body habitus and cardiac output
and whether a test dose of contrast material vs bolustracking software is used. In general, fast injection rates
and high concentrations of iodine are the general principles that allow high-quality imaging. A reasonable estimate
is that a total of 60 to 140 mL of nonionic iodinated contrast
agent can be injected at a rate of 4 to 6 mL/s. This high injection rate necessitates a power injector, preferably with an
18- to 20-gauge intravenous line, usually in the antecubital
fossa. Central lines are not desirable as they result in artifacts
and make timing of the contrast agent bolus in the thoracic
aorta challenging.62,63
Multiplanar reconstructions allow the aorta to be simultaneously visualized in coronal, sagittal, and axial planes.
This allows a more nuanced understanding of the location
of branches and aortic curvature and a precise identiﬁcation of seal zones. Centerline reconstructions are used to
determine exact distances between branch arteries, and
the length of the thoracic aorta can be measured as well.
The diameter of the aorta can be precisely determined
with centerline measurements as errors of parallax caused
by curvature are virtually eliminated.63-66
Recommendation 5: We recommend routine use of
three-dimensional centerline reconstruction software
for accurate case planning and execution in TEVAR.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
MRA. MRA is not used for routine management of
