. Thus, physicians
should, at their discretion, determine their patient’s candidacy for repair and may consider a higher size
threshold of 30 mm for those deemed at high surgical
risk.
Recommendation 3: We suggest that for patients with
a PAA <20 mm, in the presence of thrombus and clinical suspicion of embolism or imaging evidence of poor
distal runoff, repair should be considered to prevent
thromboembolic complications and possible limb
loss (grade 2C).
The probability of embolization and thrombosis may
not necessarily be dependent on aneurysm size. Ascher
et al,30 in their retrospective series of 34 PAAs observed
that patients with smaller PAAs (22 6 8 mm) had a
greater incidence of thrombotic complications and clinical symptoms than those with larger aneurysms (28 6
7 mm).30 Most of the small (ie, <20 mm) aneurysms

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

117S

Volume 75, Number 1S

(64%) were partially thrombosed, although this incidence was not signiﬁcantly different from that of the
larger aneurysms (70%). The investigators also observed
that thrombosis of the PAA did not correlate with aneurysm size.30 When comparing runoff scores, these smaller
symptomatic PAAs had poorer outﬂow vessels. Their
study resulted in consideration of early intervention,
even for PAAs <20 mm, when mural thrombus is present. However, no prospective evidence is available to
further support this. Several studies have otherwise indicated that >70% of PAAs will contain some degree of
thrombus and will form mural thrombus as the PAA enlarges. It remains controversial whether aneurysmal
degeneration results in thrombus formation or if
thrombus formation is responsible for the development
of aneurysmal dilation. As such, surgical treatment determined by the presence of thrombus alone might lead to
unjustiﬁable interventions.
Thrombus presence paired with impaired runoff, regardless of aneurysm diameter, however, might be a better
marker to identify higher risk PAAs. Microembolism from
the aneurysm