 when Symptoms
variable.
not weight
bearing
History of
degenerative
arthritis
Relief by
Worse with
lumbar spine
standing and
ﬂexion
extending
spine
May be relieved Variable, may
by not bearing relate to
weight
activity level
and present at
rest

Common

The incremental value of ABI beyond standard risk scores
(eg, Framingham) in predicting future death and cardiovascular events has been established by epidemiologic studies.38
An ABI <0.9 or >1.4 portends an increased risk of major
cardiovascular events.
The question of whether screening for PAD by ABI
would yield public health beneﬁt has been examined by
several groups and remains an area of controversy. A
recent review by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
gave ABI screening an indeterminate rating, stating that
there was insufﬁcient evidence to assess the balance of
beneﬁts and harms.39 The SVS-commissioned meta-analysis1 demonstrates that ABI testing may incrementally
improve cardiovascular risk prediction, but existing

evidence does not support broad population screening
of asymptomatic patients for PAD. However, future
studies may identify targeted subgroups of patients,
particularly those not yet on cardioprotective treatment
regimens (eg, patients with diabetes alone, hypertension
alone, or advanced age without clinically evident cardiovascular disease) that may beneﬁt from PAD screening to
trigger more aggressive medical management. To date,
inadequate data exist to deﬁne these speciﬁc subgroups,
and broad population screening appears unwarranted.
After a patient is identiﬁed with symptoms consistent
with IC and an abnormal ABI, it is important to rule out
other potential etiologies that can mimic PAD symptoms.
The differential diagnosis for IC is extensive and is

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

6S Conte and Pomposelli et al

summarized in Table I. By studying the characteristics
associated with each condition listed in Table I, it is clear
that most alternative diagnoses can be conﬁrmed or
excluded by a thorough history and physical examination.
Careful characterization of the speciﬁc pattern of symptoms, with special attention to the factors that provoke,
exacerbate, and relieve the symptoms, can