 undergoing vein bypass for claudication remains unknown. Nevertheless, the signiﬁcance and consistency of
evidence demonstrating beneﬁt for a DUS-based program
for lower extremity vein grafts done for CLI infers some
beneﬁt would be derived for grafts performed for claudication,

Conte and Pomposelli et al 31S

especially during the ﬁrst year after the bypass, although the
strength of the evidence is weak. Optimal intervals for DUS
are also not well deﬁned. Current practice of many vascular surgeons in the United States is to obtain a postoperative duplex
ultrasound assessment of vein grafts within the ﬁrst month, at
3, 6, and 12 months, and every 6 to 12 months thereafter.
Surveillance of catheter-based interventions
performed for IC. Residual and early recurrent stenoses
commonly occur after endovascular procedures, particularly
when performed for more complex disease.255 The role of
DUS after EVT is unclear. To date, no randomized trials of
DUS after endovascular intervention have been performed,
but many have extrapolated DUS protocols and criteria for
peak systolic velocity (PSV) and velocity ratio (Vr) developed
for infrainguinal vein grafts and applied them to follow-up
after EVT. Duplex ultrasound can localize and grade the
presence and degree of stenosis in the FP segment after angioplasty alone as well as after stent placement, particularly in
the SFA, where authors have correlated duplex ﬁndings with
angiography. Baril et al256 reported that a PSV >275 cm/s
and a Vr >3.5 were speciﬁc and predictive cutoff values for
duplex determination of >80% in-stent restenosis after angioplasty and stent placement in the SFA.
Clinical follow-up alone, combined with ABI determination or toe pressure measurements, or both, in limb salvage
patients, and with DUS have all been proposed methods of
surveillance for catheter-based interventions. Available reports to date regarding the accuracy, predictive value, and
beneﬁts of DUS after EVT are conﬂicting. Mewissen
et al257 reported one of the earliest experiences with DUS after
balloon