 of the disease process.
These clinical practice guidelines were developed by
the committee under the guidance of the Society for
Vascular Surgery to facilitate evidence-based clinical decision making for patients with CMI. They were limited to
patients with CMI related to atherosclerotic occlusive disease. CMI was deﬁned as ischemic symptoms caused by
insufﬁcient intestinal blood ﬂow to the gastrointestinal
tract for a duration of 3 months as deﬁned by the European Society of Vascular Surgery Guidelines.11 The

current guidelines do not address the management of
acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) or nonatherosclerotic
causes (eg, median arcuate ligament syndrome, SMA
dissection) potentially contributing to the development
of CMI. Although the goal of the guidelines was to provide the best possible evidence, there are multiple gaps
in our overall understanding and it is anticipated that
future studies will likely impact the speciﬁc recommendations. Furthermore, the guidelines provide a generic
approach to patients with CMI and may not be appropriate for every clinical scenario, thereby emphasizing
the importance of a patient-speciﬁc approach.

METHODS
The Society for Vascular Surgery selected a committee
consisting of vascular surgeons with an expertise in
CMI. A guideline methodologist, a librarian, and a team
of investigators with expertise in conducting systematic
reviews and meta-analyses assisted the committee. The
committee communicated in person and remotely. Speciﬁc questions were grouped into six areas of focus (diagnostic evaluation, indications for treatment, choice of
treatment, perioperative evaluation, endovascular/open
revascularization, and surveillance/remediation) and subgroups of the committee were assigned to the focus
areas. A formal systematic review and meta-analysis
comparing open and endovascular revascularization for
CMI was performed by the Evidence-Based Practice Center at the Mayo Clinic.12 The evidence in the other areas
was summarized and recommendations determined
by a consensus of the committee members.
The committee used the GRADE approach (Grades of
Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation) to rate the quality of evidence (conﬁdence in the estimates) and grade the strength of recommendations.13,14
This system categorizes recommendations as strong
GRADE 1 or conditional GRADE 2, based on the certainty
of