 may be secondary to embolization from the distal aspect of the occluded ICA segment,
intrinsic disease of the external carotid artery, or from
embolization from the proximal aspect of the occluded
ICA. Ocular ischemia may arise from stenosis of the external carotid artery.258 These patients may be managed by
endarterectomy of the common and external carotid artery
with transection and flush ligation of the ICA to remove the
“stump” as a cause of the symptoms.259,260 Alternatively,
angioplasty and stenting of the external carotid artery has
been used to enhance cerebral perfusion in patients with
external carotid stenosis and occlusion of the ICA.261
Oral anticoagulation administration has been used in
the treatment of patients with a stroke associated with
chronic occlusion of the ICA. On meta-analysis, anticoagulation resulted in a significant reduction in the incidence

e22 Ricotta et al

of recurrent CVA. In contrast, aspirin administration did
not affect the recurrent stroke rate.262
● Recommendations for management of symptomatic ICA occlusion
1. Patients with known ICA occlusion and persistent ipsilateral neurologic symptoms can be treated by endarterectomy of the common and external carotid artery, with
transection and ligation of the ICA origin. The addition
of oral anticoagulation is likely to reduce the rate of
recurrent CVA (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence C).
C. Carotid dissection
Carotid dissection may occur spontaneously or result
from traumatic or iatrogenic injury. Historically, carotid dissection has been treated medically with antiplatelet agents or
anticoagulation. Intervention has largely been reserved for
patients with recurrent neurologic symptoms despite antithrombotic therapy, those who experience cerebral hypoperfusion due to hemodynamic effects of the dissection, or those
in whom antithrombotic therapy is contraindicated. Open
surgical therapy may be associated with significant rates of
perioperative CVA and cranial nerve injury. The largest case
series reported a 12.5% rate of combined recurrent stroke and
death and a 58% rate of cran