
the most severe disease while using the higher pressure
identiﬁes the least affected artery. Use of three tests (ABI,
TBI, and pedal Doppler waveforms) is recommended.
This is because the accuracy of the tests may be affected
by the presence of other diabetes related complications.
Due to the use of bedside measures to monitor PAD status
over time, reliability (or reproducibility) of the tests is important in determining their clinical effectiveness. The systematic review showed that the reliability of both the ABI and
TBI was good to excellent. However, these tests are limited
by wide margins of error, which affect the amount of
change required for this to be considered a true change
rather than related to error in the measurement. For
example, an ABI measured by the same rater requires a
change of 0.15 to be considered a true change.54 Therefore,
care should be taken in performing the measurement to
control for factors that may introduce error including incorrect positioning of the person being tested (this should be
horizontal supine) and incorrect testing procedures (e.g.,
pre-test exercise, caffeine consumption, etc.).
The recommendation identiﬁes the need to perform
bedside testing in people with diabetes in whom PAD is
suspected. In people with diabetes without a DFU, the presence of PAD will increase the risk of a future DFU and amputation. The presence of PAD will inﬂuence the frequency of
screening and the measures that can be safely taken to
reduce the risk of amputation, as described in the Prevention Guidelines of the IWGDF (https://doi.org/10.1002/
dmrr.3651).39 It is therefore critical that, apart from the history and foot examination, risk factors for PAD are also
considered such as long standing or poorly controlled diabetes or diagnosis of atherosclerosis in other vascular
beds. Considering the beneﬁts and harms of this recommendation it is judged to be essential to diagnose or
exclude PAD in this population given the large impact of
untreated disease, the low burden of the tests to the person

undergoing testing, and the high likelihood that diagnosis
will be valued by them. All aforementioned bedside tests
(ABI, TBI, CWD) should be performed by trained healthcare
professionals in a standardised manner and these tests can
be applied by a