, CTA can be used to
accurately image the aortic arch, great vessels, and intracranial circulation. However, MRA is likely better than CTA
in the evaluation of plaque morphology.50 Duplex criteria
have also been validated using CTA as opposed to formal
catheter-based arteriography to measure the degree of
carotid artery stenosis.47
Conventional catheter arteriography. Catheter arteriography was previously considered the gold standard
for the evaluation of carotid artery stenosis, particularly
before CEA,40 and it was used to measure the degree
of carotid stenosis in most of the seminal studies
comparing CEA with medical therapy.26,28 However, it
carries a small risk of complications. In the ACAS trial,
angiographic-related stroke accounted for 50% of the
procedural risk after CEA.28,40 With current techniques,
the risk of complications is likely much lower.
Currently, there is a limited role for routine use of arteriography in diagnostic evaluation of patients with carotid
artery disease or in the planning of routine CEA. Although
considered the gold standard for the evaluation of carotid
artery stenosis, the current role of carotid angiography is to
help to clarify conﬂicting results obtained from other imaging modalities, particularly with regard to the presence
of carotid artery occlusion or “string sign.”
Clearly, carotid arteriography is an integral part of all carotid stenting procedures. Arteriography is also performed
as a completion study following CEA by some practitioners,
and it may be useful in evaluation and management of patients with post carotid intervention stroke to evaluate and
potentially treat the intracranial circulation. Contraindications include anaphylaxis to contrast materials.
Indications for carotid screening: High-risk groups
This is covered in the Clinical Practice Guidelines
document.3
Methods of measuring carotid stenosis
The degree of stenosis is still considered to be the
most critical parameter in determining who will beneﬁt
from carotid artery intervention for stroke prevention.
Accurately deﬁning the degree of stenosis is essential
to proper patient selection and management. As