 adequate
basilic vein and a palpable brachial artery pulse, an autogenous brachial– basilic upper arm transposition is performed.
Alternatively, the proximal radial artery may be used as
inflow, with less risk of steal.
If the cephalic or basilic veins have been used or are not
available, an upper extremity prosthetic AV access is performed. For upper arm access, the source of arterial inflow
is the brachial or proximal radial artery. If the brachial artery
is used, it must be palpable. Alternatively, or after an upper
arm prosthetic access is used, an autogenous brachial–
brachial (vein) upper arm transposition or a great saphenous vein upper arm translocation may be performed. Of
note, although using the great saphenous vein is described
here as an autogenous alternative, it should be reserved as a
last-resort option because its long-term patency has not
been confirmed. Indeed, the femoral vein has been used as
an autogenous alternative with functional patency of 94%
reported at 2 years.70
Lower extremity. When use of both upper extremities
has been exhausted, lower extremity access becomes an
alternative access site. This access is less desirable secondary
to the high occurrence of lower extremity occlusive disease
in this group of patients, the higher likelihood of steal, and
the increased incidence of infections associated with groin
accesses. The great saphenous vein is the preferred conduit;
secondary to its medial and deep location, transpositions
are always required. The femoral artery (preferably the
superficial femoral artery or the profunda femoris artery) is
used for inflow and must be palpable. Therefore, for initial
lower extremity access in patients with adequate great
saphenous vein and a palpable femoral pulse, an autogenous femoral– great saphenous lower extremity transposition is performed, either in a loop or straight configuration.
Alternatively, in patients with a palpable posterior or anterior tibial artery pulse, either tibial artery may be used as
inflow to create an autogenous tibial– great saphenous
lower extremity direct access.
In patients without an adequate great saphenous vein,
