
is indicated.
2. If a patient awakens from CEA under general anesthesia, and reexploration and evaluation of the ICA reveals either thrombosis of the ICA or a technical
deﬁcit, the artery must be reexplored and repaired
as clinically warranted.

3. If technically feasible, a shunt should be inserted carefully and at the appropriate time during reexploration
of the artery for a perioperative stroke to limit the
extent of cerebral ischemia.
4. Treatment of the artery at reexploration can include
thrombectomy, thromboendarterectomy, correction
of any noted technical deﬁcits and/or intracerebral
arteriography based on the operative ﬁndings.
5. If there are no relevant ﬁndings at the endarterectomy
site on reexploration, and cerebral arteriography reveals intracerebral embolization, catheter directed
thrombolysis and/or other intracranial endovascular
“neurologic rescue” techniques can be considered as
deemed clinically warranted.
6. If a patient who is initially normal after CEA under
general anesthesia develops a new neurologic deﬁcit
in the early postoperative period, immediate evaluation and reexploration of the artery is indicated, unless
another cause of stroke is conﬁrmed.
7. If a patient who is initially normal after CEA under
general anesthesia develops a new neurologic deﬁcit
later in the postoperative period, additional evaluation including a CT scan of the brain to rule out ICH
is indicated before consideration of reexploration.
8. If reexploration for an intraoperative or perioperative
stroke following CEA does not reveal any cause at
the endarterectomy site or on intracerebral arterial
imaging, medical management is indicated.
9. If a patient develops a new neurologic deﬁcit intraoperatively during CEA under locoregional anesthesia,
surgical management should proceed as appropriate
based upon the timing of the event as related to the
intraoperative course of the operation.
10. If a patient who is initially normal after CEA under
locoregional anesthesia with tolerance of carotid
clamping develops an ipsilateral focal neurologic
deﬁcit, immediate reexploration of the artery and
appropriate treatment is indicated, unless another
cause of stroke can