 patients
enrolled into the Vascular Quality Initiative Varicose
Vein registry, with symptomatic C2 disease, who underwent saphenous ablation with RFA or EVLT; 59.9%
also had concomitant phlebectomies. An improvement in overall symptoms at more than 3 months
follow-up was experienced by 94.4% of patients with
more signiﬁcant decreases among patients undergoing ablation and phlebectomy (median, 12 points;
interquartile range, 8-17 points) compared with ablation alone (median, 9 points; interquartile range, 5-13
points; P < .001).
Overall, the available evidence from the identiﬁed systematic review showed that combined treatment of saphenous incompetence and symptomatic varicosities results
in better short-term and better to equivalent long-term patient outcomes.118 All outcomes and other outcomes are
presented in Supplementary Table VIII (online only).
Subgroup and sensitivity analyses
Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were feasible for Key
Question 2 and Key Question 3. Analyses were stratiﬁed
based on publication year (before and after 2016). For
most analyses, there was no statistically signiﬁcant differences between the two subgroup estimates. We also
conducted sensitivity analyses in which we excluded
studies with a high risk of bias, and the results were
consistent with the main analysis for most of the outcomes. All outcomes including estimates from subgroup
and sensitivity analyses are presented in Supplementary
Tables V and VI (online only).

1166

Farah et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
September 2022

DISCUSSION
Main ﬁndings. The evaluation and treatment of varicose veins and more advanced chronic venous insufﬁciency have progressed tremendously during the past
decade. Based largely on results of a systematic review
performed by Murad et al,11 the SVS and the AVF published clinical practice guidelines in 2011 on the care of
patients with varicose veins and associated chronic
venous diseases.9 The current systematic review on the
management of varicose veins analyzed data of 45 RCTs,
28 observational