ICC) using a twoway random effects model evaluating absolute agreement.71

The ICC was high with a single measures coefﬁcient of .81
and an average measures coefﬁcient of .98.
REVASCULARIZATION BENEFIT ACCORDING
TO WIfI CATEGORY
Distinct from the anticipated risk of amputation, an
important question for the vascular specialist is to assess
the potential beneﬁt from successful revascularization,
which is strongly inﬂuenced by the degree of perfusion
beneﬁt as well as the hemodynamic requirements for
successful foot salvage. To address this question, we had
to assume that any infection, if present, had been
controlled. This question differs from the risk of amputation, since large complex wounds and severe infection
may lead to amputation even in the absence of signiﬁcant
ischemia. Conversely, minor wounds or wounds with
mild/moderate ischemia may heal with adequate debridement and wound care alone. Accordingly, we undertook
a similar Delphi process to classify the WIfI combinations
into four groups (very low, low, moderate, and high) based
on projected beneﬁt from anatomic revascularizationd
from no (or very low) beneﬁt to greatest potential beneﬁt.
In this process, certain presentations at the extremes of
amputation risk (eg, rest pain alone vs extensive infection
without ischemia) are classiﬁed quite differently than in
the disease staging system above (Table IV, a) that focused
on amputation risk. Table IV, b is quite informative for
determining the likelihood a given patient will require
revascularization. As with amputation risk, the ICC71 was
slightly lower but still quite acceptable with a single
measures coefﬁcient of .76 and an average measures coefﬁcient of .97.
The 16 possible combinations in ischemia 0 are
unlikely to require revascularization. The spectrum of
ischemia requiring vascular intervention is, thus, reduced

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

Mills et al 229

Table IV. a and b, Risk/beneﬁt: Clinical stages by expert consensus
a, Estimate risk of amputation at 1 year for each combination

W