 for reticular
and telangiectatic veins. One leg was assigned to wear
a class II stocking for 1 week, and the contralateral leg
was assigned to 3 weeks of class I graduated compression. Pigmentation and bruising after sclerotherapy
were signiﬁcantly less in the group with 3 weeks of class
I graduated compression.
Fentem et al47 studied healthy volunteers comparing
bandaging using a large ﬂat compression pad vs a small
narrow pad. Different surgeons achieved different
degrees of compression. The use of a foam pad over
the injection site was successful as long as ﬁbrinous
occlusion in the vein took place. This study suggested
the need to measure pressures under the bandaging.
Some studies have questioned the need for compression after sclerotherapy. The effectiveness of compression bandaging or stockings in patients undergoing
foam sclerotherapy was studied in a randomized trial
of 124 limbs with 24 hours vs 5 days of bandaging.37 There
was no signiﬁcant difference between the two groups in
the incidence of superﬁcial thrombophlebitis after
2 weeks or skin discoloration after 6 weeks. There was
no signiﬁcant difference in the change of the Buford
pain score from baseline to 2 weeks or in the change of
the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey score from baseline to 6 weeks. In a randomized controlled study performed at two centers, 60 patients with incompetent
GSV and short saphenous veins underwent ultrasoundguided foam sclerotherapy.37 One group was treated
with compression stockings (15-20 mm Hg) for 3 weeks
and the other group was treated without compression.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

25

Volume 7, Number 1

The efﬁcacy of sclerotherapy and side effects were
assessed. On days 14 and 28, clinical and duplex ultrasound assessments were performed by independent
experts; the patients also completed a quality of life
questionnaire and reported satisfaction scores. The study
found no difference between compression and control
groups in comparing treatment efﬁcacy, side effects,
satisfaction scores, symptoms, and quality of life scores.
The