 undesirable effects,
the patient’s values and preferences, and the required resources, feasibility and acceptability. GRADE 1 recommendations are meant to identify clinical practices for which
the associated beneﬁt clearly outweighs the risk. These
recommendations can be made by clinicians and
accepted by patients with a high degree of conﬁdence.
GRADE 2 recommendations are made when the beneﬁts
and risks are more closely matched and, as such, are more
dependent on speciﬁc clinical scenarios. In general,
clinician and patient preferences will play a more important role in the decision-making process in such circumstances. The SVS adjusted the GRADE rubric such that the
level of evidence to support the recommendation is
divided into three categories: A, high quality; B, moderate

quality; and C, low quality. Conclusions based on highquality evidence are unlikely to change with further
investigation. In contrast, those based on moderatequality evidence are more likely to be affected by future
research. Finally, those based on low-quality evidence are
the least supported by the current data and the most
likely to be subject to change in the future. On occasion, a
GRADE 1 recommendation can be made from low-quality
(C) evidence.28 The expert panel reached a consensus for
all the recommendations and their level of supporting
evidence. These guidelines represent a “living document,”
because new evidence is continually being collected and,
as such, will require periodic updates as more is learned
about the evaluation and management of PAAs.
Evidence to decision framework (decisional factors).
Little is known about the values and preferences of patients with PAAs owing to the rarity of the condition.
Therefore, the guideline committee members used their
clinical expertise and assumed patient values from interactions with their patients. Most patients consider mortality and amputation as the most critical outcomes,
followed by reintervention and patency. Patients would
likely prefer an endovascular approach, unless it was
clearly inferior in terms of its effect on these outcomes.
This is consistent with the patient values derived from
other similar contexts in vascular surgery, such as abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs).51 Interviews with patients
with small AAAs have demonstrated that they cared the
most about postoperative morbidity and mortality
compared with the need for surveillance and the risk of
long-term problems with endovascular repair.51