www.
jointcommission.org/), and the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality (http://www.ahrq.gov), and
increased potential opportunities for National Institutes
of Health funding for research on venous ulcer prevention
and treatment.3
WOUND CARE
A broad array of products and treatment strategies are
currently marketed for the purpose of managing chronic
wounds related to venous hypertension. It is challenging
to determine which of these therapies have meaningful evidence that shows improvement in patient-centered outcomes, such as pain reduction and wound healing. This
section is organized into general categories related to
wound healing as noted in Table VIII. All of these therapies must be used concurrently with compression therapy
or venous intervention to control the underlying venous
hypertension resulting in ulceration.
Wound Bed Preparation. Wound bed preparation is
deﬁned as the management of the wound to accelerate
endogenous healing and to facilitate the effectiveness of
other therapeutic measures. The aim of wound bed preparation is to convert the molecular and cellular environment
of a chronic wound to that of an acute healing wound.
Included within this framework are (1) débridement, (2)
wound exudate control, and (3) management of surface
bacteria. Once control of the underlying venous hypertension is achieved, a key barrier that inhibits wound healing is
eliminated. Other barriers to healing include bacterial overgrowth or infection, chronic inﬂammation, and necrotic or
nonviable tissue on the wound surface. Control of these
factors must also be achieved to stimulate optimal wound
healing. Management of wound exudate is covered in the
wound dressings section, and bacterial management is
considered in the section on infection control.
Guideline 4.1: Wound Cleansers
We suggest that venous leg ulcers be cleansed
initially and at each dressing change with a neutral,
nonirritating, nontoxic solution, performed with a
minimum of chemical or mechanical trauma. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

Although there is little evidence that the routine use of
a wound cleanser results in improvement of VLU outcomes measures, most patients with VLUs present with signiﬁcant wound exudate and other debris in and around the
wound area that must be cleansed routinely before dressing
application. Numerous cleansing solutions have been
