As typically exceed 20 mm in
diameter. In a study of 106 patients who were followed
up for a mean of 6.7 years, 67 asymptomatic limbs were
managed nonoperatively.17 In this cohort, symptoms
had developed in 12 limbs (17.9%). At least one of three
risk factors (ie, aneurysm size >20 mm, presence of
thrombus, and poor tibial runoff) was present in 91.7%
of the symptomatic group compared with 37.5% of
the control limbs that remained asymptomatic. These
ﬁndings prompted recommendations that patients
with PAAs with any of these factors should undergo
elective repair.
However, other studies have suggested that a higher
threshold for intervention may be appropriate. In a study
of 87 PAAs, it was determined that the initial diameter at
diagnosis and the presence of luminal thrombus were
the most important factors in determining which PAAs
will expand at the greatest rate.16 The investigators recommended that for patients with good surgical risk, an
asymptomatic aneurysm of $25 mm would beneﬁt
from repair. In a retrospective review of 116 PAAs, it was
observed that as the PAA increased in diameter, the degree of proximal angle of distortion also increased.29
Aneurysm size alone was not a signiﬁcant predictor of
symptom development. However, an increased diameter
and degree of distortion occurred more often in PAAs
associated with ALI than in asymptomatic PAAs. The investigators showed that a threshold of 30-mm diameter
and >45 of distortion were highly predictive of thrombosis and provided a reliable method of differentiating
aneurysms best ﬁt for elective repair. Thus, physicians
should, at their discretion, determine their patient’s candidacy for repair and may consider a higher size
threshold of 30 mm for those deemed at high surgical
risk.
Recommendation 3: We suggest that for patients with
a PAA <20 mm, in the presence of thrombus and clinical suspicion of embolism or imaging evidence of poor
distal runoff, repair should be considered to prevent
thromboembolic complications and possible limb
