 the risk of rupture. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.4: We recommend treating nonruptured splenic
artery true aneurysms >3 cm, with a demonstrable
increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients
of acceptable risk because of the risk of rupture.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low).
2.5: We suggest observation over repair for small (<3 cm),
stable asymptomatic splenic artery true aneurysms or
those in patients with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities
or limited life expectancies. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.1: In patients with ruptured SAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest treatment with ligation with or without
splenectomy, depending on the aneurysm location.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

5S

Volume 72, Number 1S

3.2: In patients with ruptured SAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies, we suggest treatment with
open surgical or appropriate endovascular techniques
based on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical
condition. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.3: We suggest elective treatment of SAA using an
endovascular approach if it is anatomically feasible. However, elective treatment may appropriately involve open
surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods of intervention, depending on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.4: In treatment of SAA, we suggest that the splenic
artery does not routinely require preservation or revascularization. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.5: In treatment of distal SAA adjacent to the hilum of
the spleen, we suggest open surgical techniques
including possible splenectomy as opposed to endovascular methods, given concern for the possibility of endorgan ischemia, including splenic infarction and pancreatitis. Level of