ed indirect
because risk score is a
surrogate outcome

C

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CT, computed tomography; MR, magnetic resonance.
3. MANAGEMENT OF ASYMPTOMATIC
PATIENTS WITH PAD
The incidence of asymptomatic PAD in the U.S. population is substantial, extends across gender and race divisions,
and may be readily conﬁrmed by use of the ABI.11,50 An
important question is whether identiﬁcation and treatment
of the asymptomatic PAD population provides incremental
health beneﬁts beyond that derived from routine cardiovascular risk factor assessment and treatment. In addition to
diagnosing PAD in patients with exertional leg symptoms
or nonhealing wounds, the 2011 American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association PAD
Guidelines recommend screening for PAD in all patients
aged >65 years and in all patients aged >50 years with a
history of diabetes or smoking.51 As noted above, these recommendations run counter to the ﬁndings of the SVScommissioned systematic review,1 which suggests that no
clear beneﬁt is derived from screening for PAD in asymptomatic patients.
The recommendations of the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force in 2005 concluded that the harms of
screening asymptomatic adults for PAD would outweigh
any beneﬁts.52 The U.S. Preventative Services Task
Force again addressed the issue of ABI screening in its
2013 publication39 and concluded that “there is insufﬁcient evidence to determine the balance of beneﬁts and

harms of screening for PAD with the ABI to prevent
future cardiovascular disease outcomes.” The conﬂicting
recommendations and ongoing controversy demonstrate
that although asymptomatic PAD is a sentinel indicator
of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, speciﬁc treatment pathways for this large PAD subpopulation remain
poorly deﬁned.
PAD primarily results from atherosclerotic occlusion
of the arteries supplying the lower extremity. Consequently, management of asymptomatic PAD should be
directed at accepted risk factor modiﬁcation for patients
with atherosclerosis. Pharmacologic strategies with
proven beneﬁt for symptomatic PAD have been empirically applied to the treatment of the asymptomatic PAD
population. However, as noted below, certain pharmacologic interventions have failed to show beneﬁ