/ischemia and potential limb threat. This is
easily accomplished by tapering the large vein to the desired
diameter with a running suture.
Body wall. After both upper and lower extremities use
has been exhausted, body wall access can be used as an
alternative access site.71 Body wall access usually requires
use of a prosthetic graft, and its use is left as a last alternative. Sources of venous outflow include the axillary, internal
jugular, and common femoral veins. The main source of
arterial inflow is the axillary artery. Appropriate options
include a prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest access, a
prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest loop access, a prosthetic axillary–internal jugular chest loop access, and a
prosthetic axillary– common femoral (vein) body wall access. When a patient is being evaluating for placement of
AV dialysis access, this access sequencing strategy will help
the surgeon optimize the construction of autogenous access and lengthening the time the patient can be dialyzed
safely and comfortably.
3. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: First choice
is forearm autogenous arteriovenous access
We recommend the placement of forearm autogenous arteriovenous access as the first choice for primary
access for hemodialysis (GRADE 1 recommendation,
very low-quality evidence).
A. When arterial and venous anatomy is suitable,
placement of autogenous radial– cephalic direct
wrist access (Brescia-Cimino-Appel) or autogenous
posterior radial branch– cephalic direct wrist access
(snuffbox) is recommended.
B. In the case where arterial or venous anatomy does
not allow placement of a direct access, forearm
vein transposition or translocation are recommended. These procedures should use the maximal length of adequate vein and use arterial
inflow from the forearm tailored to accommodate
this length of vein.
3.1. Evidence
Systematic review of the literature that included 83
studies revealed that, compared with prosthetic access, the

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

10S Sidawy et al

Table I. Summary of evidence. Question: Should autogenous access or prosthetics access be used for