ous vein is translocated to the
forearm in a looped configuration between the antecubital
vein and brachial or proximal radial artery to perform the
two anastomoses.
Upper arm autogenous accesses. Upper arm accesses
have most commonly been based on the brachial artery for
inflow; however, the proximal radial artery is an excellent
choice for inflow as long as there is adequate length of vein
to support the additional 2 to 3 cm of length required to
perform the anastomosis at the proximal radial artery,
which is a few centimeters distal to the brachial artery at the
antecubital fossa. Although confusion may arise regarding
classification of accesses originating from the proximal radial artery, these accesses should be classified as upper arm
accesses except in cases where all access flow is retrograde
into the forearm.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– cephalic upper arm direct access. This autogenous access is performed
between the end of the cephalic vein and the brachial or
proximal radial artery located in the antecubital fossa. If the
cephalic vein and selected artery are close together, the
procedure is performed through one transverse incision; if
not, separate incisions are made and the end of the cephalic
vein is tunneled to the brachial or proximal radial artery to
perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– cephalic upper arm transposition. This autogenous access is performed
between the end of the cephalic vein and the brachial or
proximal radial artery. The cephalic vein is identified at the
elbow and mobilized to an appropriate length to allow its
free end to reach the brachial artery. The brachial artery is
identified through an extension of this incision or, if located
far away, through a second incision overlying the palpable
brachial artery pulse just beyond to the proximal radial artery.
The cephalic vein is tunneled superficially and medially towards the brachial artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– basilic upper
arm transposition. This autogenous access is performed
between the