 at least
two
weeks’
duration.
Venous,
embolic,
nonatherosclerotic, and traumatic aetiologies are excluded.
Diabetes related micro-angiopathy: pathological structural and functional changes in the microcirculation of
people with diabetes mellitus, which can occur in any
part of the body as a consequence of the disease.
Diabetes related foot ulcer: a break of the skin of the foot
that involves, as a minimum, the epidermis and part of
the dermis in a person with diabetes and usually accompanied by neuropathy and or PAD in the lower extremity.
Diabetes related foot gangrene: a condition that occurs
when body tissue dies because of insufﬁcient blood supply, infection, or injury.
Foot perfusion: tissue perfusion strictly means the volume
of blood that ﬂows through a unit of tissue and is often
expressed in mL blood/100 g of tissue. With respect to clinical assessment of the foot, perfusion is traditionally
measured by the surrogate markers of systolic arterial pressure at the level of the ankle and toe arteries. Pressure measurements may be misleading in people with diabetes due
to the frequent presence of medial calciﬁcation. This has led
to the development of a number of alternative clinically
used means of assessing tissue perfusion, including TcPO2
(transcutaneous pressure of oxygen), SPP (skin perfusion
pressure), PAT (pedal acceleration time), and near infrared
spectrophotometry (NIRS).
Multidisciplinary team: a group of people from relevant
clinical disciplines, whose interactions are guided by speciﬁc team functions and processes to achieve team and
person deﬁned favourable outcomes.
Peripheral artery disease (PAD): obstructive atherosclerotic vascular disease of the arteries from aorta to foot
with clinical symptoms, signs, or abnormalities on noninvasive or invasive vascular assessment, resulting in
disturbed or impaired circulation in one or more
extremities.

INTRODUCTION
The incidence of diabetes continues to increase in all
countries. Recent estimates are that 537 million people
are affected by diabetes (1 in 11 adults worldwide) and that
783 million individuals will be affected by 2045.25 Diabetes
is associated with signiﬁcant risk of foot complications
including ulceration, gangrene, and amputation