 is
reasonable to scan at 1 year and annually thereafter until
disease seems to be stable, deﬁned as no restenosis is
observed in two consecutive annual scans. Annual
follow-up also allows careful reassessment of risk factors
and medical treatment optimization. More frequent
follow-up can be considered for higher risk groups.
Summary and recommendations.
1. After CEA or CAS, we recommend surveillance with
duplex
ultrasound
examination
at
baseline
(#3 months) and annually thereafter until stable (ie,
until no restenosis observed in two consecutive
annual scans). Subsequent interval or regular surveillance (eg, every 2 years) can be selectively maintained
based on the stenosis of the contralateral ICA, the risk
proﬁle and life expectancy of the patient.
2. For patients combining multiple risk factors for restenosis after CEA or CAS (eg, female gender, diabetes,
renal insufﬁciency, continued smoking, and impaired
cerebrovascular reactivity) we recommend surveillance with duplex ultrasound examination every
6 months until a stable clinical pattern is established
and annually thereafter.

CAROTID INTERVENTION: CEA OR CAS AND
COGNITIVE FUNCTION
Carotid disease and cognitive function. As medical advances increase the average lifespan of the world population, the prevalence of dementia will increase and
place additional economic burdens on caregivers and
the healthcare system as a whole.610,611 Many factors inﬂuence dementia risk.612 Current literature suggests an
association between carotid occlusive disease and
increased risk for cognitive deterioration.613-615 Both
chronic hypoperfusion and embolization are implicated
in cognitive deterioration.616
The association between stroke and cognitive dysfunction has been clearly documented, Cognitive impairment following stroke ranges from 20% to 40%.617,618
The relationship between asymptomatic carotid stenosis
and cognitive function is still controversial. Multiple large
population-based cross-sectional and cohort studies
including the Tromsø Study, Rotterdam Study, Framingham Study, and Cardiovascular Health Study show that

80S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

subjects with asymptomatic carotid stenosis preform
signiﬁ