4, Number 3

imaging studies (CDUS, MRA, CTA), DSA is indicated
to resolve conflicting results. DSA is generally reserved
for situations where there is inconclusive evidence of
stenosis on less invasive studies or when CAS is planned
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
5. A postoperative DUS study ⱕ30 days is recommended
to assess the status of the endarterectomized vessel. In
patients with ⱖ50% stenosis on this study, further
follow-up imaging to assess progression or resolution is
indicated. In patients with a normal DUS study result
and primary closure of the endarterectomy site, ongoing
imaging is recommended to identify recurrent stenosis.
In patients with a normal DUS after patch or eversion
endarterectomy, further imaging of the endarterectomized vessel may be indicated if the patient has multiple
risk factors for progression of atherosclerosis. There are
insufficient data to make recommendations on imaging
after CAS (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). Although
the data in this area are not robust concerning intervals
for follow-up imaging, the committee was unanimous in
this recommendation, recognizing that follow-up DUS
carries little risk.
6. Imaging after CAS or CEA is indicated to monitor
contralateral disease progression in patients with contralateral stenosis ⱖ50%. In patients with multiple risk
factors for vascular disease, follow-up DUS may be
indicated with lesser degrees of stenosis. The likelihood
of disease progression is related to the initial severity of
stenosis (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). Although
the data in this area are not robust concerning intervals
for follow-up imaging, the committee was unanimous in
this recommendation, recognizing that follow-up DUS
carries little risk.
III. MEDICAL MANAGEMENT OF PATIENTS
WITH CAROTID STENOSIS
Optimal medical management is an important part of
overall treatment of all patients with carotid bifurcation
disease, regardless of the degree of stenosis or the plan for
intervention. This therapy is directed both at the reduction
of stroke and overall cardiovascular events, including cardiovascular-related mortality. The best medical management for stroke prevention was highlighted in clinical practice guidelines issued jointly in 200