 have needle phobia, allergy to sclerosants and for small veins with telangiectatic matting,
while sclerotherapy is more effective for larger, feeder
veins. A 2021 Cochrane review186 found no clear difference in resolution or improvement of telangiectasias or
matting when laser was compared with sclerotherapy.
There was maybe less hyperpigmentation (RR, 0.57; 95%
CI, 0.40-0.80) in the laser group. There was more resolution or improvement of telangiectasias in the combined laser and polidocanol group compared with
polidocanol alone (low-certainty evidence). Laser treatment may result in less hyperpigmentation (moderatecertainty evidence). Further well-designed studies are
required to provide evidence for other available treatments and important outcomes (such as recurrence,
time to resolution and delayed adverse events); and to
improve our conﬁdence in the identiﬁed comparisons.
7.2. Varicose tributaries.
7.2.1. For treatment of symptomatic varicose tributaries,
we recommend miniphlebectomy or ultrasound guided
sclerotherapy using physician-compounded foam (PCF)
or polidocanol endovenous microfoam (PEM).
GUIDELINE. Grade of recommendation 1 (strong),
Quality of Evidence B (moderate)
For Rationale and Evidence supporting Guideline 7.2.1.,
please see Part I of the varicose vein guidelines.8
7.2.2. For treatment of symptomatic varicose tributaries, we suggest transilluminated powered phlebectomy as an alternative treatment for patients with
large clusters of varicosities by a physician who is
trained in the procedure.

GUIDELINE. Grade of recommendation 2 (weak),
Quality of Evidence C (low to very low)
Rationale. In patients with large, clustered patterns of
varicose veins, transilluminated powered phlebectomy
remains an acceptable alternative treatment option
which requires fewer incisions and shorter treatment
times.
Evidence. Several studies have described the safety
and efﬁcacy of ambulatory phlebectomy.171,189,190 Transilluminated powered phlebectomy is a minimally