As are typically located in the posterior mediastinum
and associated with the cervicothoracic sign. This sign is
based on the fact that the anterior mediastinum does
not extend above the clavicles. Therefore, any mediastinal mass extending above the level of the clavicle
with sharply deﬁned borders delineated by an air-soft tissue interface is located in the middle or posterior
mediastinum.57
Practice Statement: The primary role of chest radiographs in the workup of acute aortic syndromes is the
exclusion of other diagnoses. A chest radiograph may
be completely normal despite the presence of PAU or
IMH. (Ungraded good practice statement)
CTA. CTA is the most widely used modality for deﬁnitive
diagnosis of aortic diseases and has become essential for
planning aortic interventions, especially when it is used
in conjunction with postacquisition image processing
and three-dimensional reconstruction software. This
limits radiation exposure and intravenous contrast material use. CTA should also include the femoral and iliac
arteries as well as the abdominal aorta in addition to the
neck and chest.58 Advances in imaging techniques,
including electrocardiography-gated CTA, have been
demonstrated to decrease the risk of motion artifact in
the thoracic aorta.59
Recommendation 4: If TEVAR is being considered, we
recommend ﬁne-cut (#0.25 mm) CTA of the entire aorta
as well as of the iliac and femoral arteries. CTA of the

head and neck is also needed to determine the anatomy
of the vertebral arteries.60,61 Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Pixel spacing for modern CTA is submillimeter (0.50.75 mm), with a typically used slice thickness of around
1 mm, depending on scanner type and manufacturer.
Routine computed tomography (CT) scans are often performed in 3- to 5-mm cuts, but three-dimensional planning for endovascular intervention is best done with #2mm cuts.60 Given the acquisition method on most modern CTA equipment, images can often be reformatted to
thinner cuts if the original data set is still available to do so.
Ide