, patients should be maintained on antiplatelet agents and a statin.139 A completion imaging study
should be performed intraoperatively at the time of the
procedure and/or before discharge to conﬁrm the technical adequacy of the procedure and to serve as a baseline. Technical defects have been identiﬁed in up to 15%
of the procedures with a low rate of graft failure among
normal studies.160 Identiﬁcation and correction of
major defects using intraoperative ultrasound has
been reported to signiﬁcantly decrease graft-related
complications and death after open mesenteric
revascularization.160
The higher rate of perioperative complications associated with the open approach has been used to justify
the endovascular-ﬁrst approach. The open approach
has been associated with a higher perioperative complication rate, hospital length of stay, and cost, although the
perioperative mortality rates seem to be equivocal. These
increased perioperative complications are offset by a
lower rate of recurrent symptoms and reinterventions,
despite no difference in long-term mortality. Interestingly, Wagenhäuser et al161 reported that patients undergoing open revascularization had a lower health related

108S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

quality of life compared with normative data, suggesting
that the beneﬁt from open repair may be modest.
Special discussions
A select group of patients with MAOD involving the
SMA may require revascularization at the time of an
open aortic procedure, as summarized elsewhere in
this article. A retrograde SMA bypass for the aortic graft
(or the iliac limb) is feasible for transperitoneal open repairs. This is also feasible for retroperitoneal aortic repairs
although it usually involves entering the peritoneal cavity
and dissecting the proximal SMA after mobilizing the
duodenum.
Future research
Deﬁne the optimal, open technique for revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the optimal perioperative care for patients undergoing open revascularization for CMI
d

Surveillance and remediation
Recommendations.
1. We suggest patient education and counseling about
recurrent symptoms in all patients undergoing revascularization for CMI owing to the high rate of recurrence. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2.