 reduction.
3. Vascular diagnostic testing and imaging: Noninvasive
and invasive diagnostic testing of vascular disease,
including but not limited to duplex ultrasound scanning, Doppler testing, plethysmography, magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography angiography,
contrast angiography and venography, intravascular
ultrasound, and other new and evolving imaging tools.
4. Open vascular surgery: Indications for and techniques
of open surgical treatment, including management of
their complications, for vascular disorders involving
arteries, veins, and lymphatic vessels throughout the
body, exclusive of intrinsic cardiac and intracerebral
vessels. These arteries include the carotid artery and
its extracranial branches, vertebral arteries, upper
extremity arteries, intrathoracic arch branches, aortic
arch and descending thoracic aorta, abdominal aorta,
visceral and renal arteries, and pelvic and lower
extremity arteries. Venous2 and lymphatic disorders
are also included. The SVS conﬁrms that vascular surgeons are the only specialists trained to treat patients
with pathologic processes affecting all of these vessels
with open surgical treatment while also being the
only specialists that can effectively treat complications of said operations with appropriate endovascular and open surgical intervention.1
5. Endovascular therapy: Indications for and techniques
of endovascular interventions, including management of their complications, for vascular disorders
involving all vessels listed for open surgery. Although
vascular surgeons may not be the only specialists
that can treat patients with these lesions with endovascular treatment, they are the only specialists that
can offer the comprehensive and combined elements
of medical management, endovascular therapy, or
open surgery as effective initial treatment for all of
these disorders affecting all of the vessels listed.
They are also the only specialists able to effectively
treat complications of endovascular intervention
with appropriate endovascular and open surgical
intervention.
6. Critical care management: Management of patients
including preoperative and postoperative evaluation
and treatment of vascular patients in the intensive
care setting. This management includes understanding indications and techniques for the insertion of
peripheral artery, central venous, and pulmonary
artery catheters for hemodynamic monitoring.
In summary, it is the position of the SVS that vascular
surgeons are the only specialists trained to treat patients
with all