 associated with a higher risk of acute or late stent
occlusion. Heavy circumferential calcification makes lesion
dilation more difficult and also increases the risk of embolization with CAS. There are no lesion specific characteristics that increase the risk of CEA.
c. Other anatomic considerations. Several anatomic
situations may increase the difficulty of CEA. These
include reoperation after prior CEA, existence of a cervical stoma, history of neck radiotherapy with resultant
local fibrotic changes of the skin and soft tissues, and
previous ablative neck surgery, such as radical neck dissection and laryngectomy.193-195,198
While CEA can be successfully performed in these situations, particularly when the tissues of the ipsilateral neck are
not scarred and fibrotic, these situations can increase the risk
of wound infection, difficulty of dissection, and potentially,
the incidence of cranial nerve injury. The presence of a short,
thick neck in an obese patient may make dissection more

Ricotta et al e15

tedious but has not in itself proven to be associated with
increased operative risk.
Anatomic factors to consider with CAS are related to
access issues. Successful CAS requires remote access of the
ICA artery using a stable platform to avoid the intravascular
motion of sheaths, stents, and protection devices during
the procedure. Anatomic factors that may complicate this
process include aortoiliac tortuosity, a sharply angulated
aortic arch (type III), or a carotid lesion with more than two
90° bends within a short distance of the target lesion.197
Significant distal ICA tortuosity may also complicate the
placement and stabilization of a distal embolic protection
device. An aortic arch with heavy calcium or a high atherosclerotic burden is also associated with an increased risk
with CAS. This is felt to be the main reason that CAS results
are worse in patients aged ⬎80 years.199,200
2. Patient characteristics. It seems intuitive that the
risk of periprocedural events after CEA or CAS might be
increased in patients presenting with severe comorbid conditions, including dialysis-dependent renal failure, New
York Heart Association class III or IV