
curves showed that the ICA PSV was significantly better
than EDV or ICA/CCA ratio (P ⫽ .036) in detecting
ⱖ70% stenosis and ⱖ50% stenosis. There was no improvement in accuracy by adding the EDV values or the ratios, or
both, to the PSV values.
Velocity-based estimation of carotid artery stenosis may
need to be adjusted in certain circumstances, for example,
higher velocities in women than in men and higher velocities in the presence of contralateral carotid artery occlusion.70,71 High carotid bifurcation, severe arterial tortuosity, extensive vascular calcification, and obesity may also
reduce the accuracy of DUS imaging. Carotid stents will
decrease compliance of the vessel wall and flow velocity.72
DUS imaging may also fail to differentiate between subtotal and total carotid occlusion. Intravenous administration
of contrast agents may improve diagnostic accuracy,73,74
but the safety of these agents has been questioned.
Power Doppler and contrast DUS imaging can be used
to differentiate between preocclusive stenosis and complete
occlusion.75 Overall, each vascular laboratory should have
in place an internal validation process of their own criteria
for their internal use.
DUS imaging of the carotid artery has two major
limitations: quality dependence on the technician’s examination and limitations of visualization of the proximal
carotid artery and intracranial portions. Although the intracranial cerebral arteries can be assessed with transcranial
Doppler imaging, this technique is not as widely available at
most institutions as other imaging modalities.
In addition to determining percent stenosis, DUS, as
noted above, has been used to determine plaque characteristics (echogenicity) using gray scale median values, which
predict the stroke risk of a particular plaque. Plaque characterization is not routine in every vascular laboratory and
requires specific protocols to assure standardization of results.
B. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography
MRA has the advantage of being noninvasive, does not
require iodinated contrast or ionizing radiation, and provides an unlimited number of projections of the carotid
lumen from a single acquisition. MRA can also assess
intrathoracic and intrac