
time of any planned intervention.
Selection of the appropriate study depends on patient
characteristics and institutional expertise. In strongly recommending the use of alternative imaging in such situations, a high value is placed on identifying isolated iliofemoral thrombosis that may be missed by routine ultrasound
imaging, although the cost-effectiveness of this approach
has not been evaluated nor have prospective management
trials been performed (Grade 1C).
2. Indications for early thrombus removal
2.1. We suggest a strategy of early thrombus removal in selected patients meeting the following criteria: (a) a first episode of acute iliofemoral deep venous
thrombosis, (b) symptoms <14 days in duration, (c) a
low risk of bleeding, and (d) ambulatory with good
functional capacity and an acceptable life expectancy
(Grade 2C). The strength of recommendation for strategies of early thrombus removal are based on balancing the
patient-important benefits of prevention of the postthrombotic syndrome and quality of life vs the risks of therapy;
specifically, bleeding, PE, and recurrent DVT. The use of
surrogate outcomes may also be relevant, such as the prevention of venous reflux and persistent venous obstruction,
although they provide a less robust estimate of benefit and
contribute to the indirectness of the evidence. Overall, the
quality of evidence supporting early thrombus removal
strategies is very low (Grade C) because of the methodologic limitations of the relevant studies (lack of randomization, incomparability of study groups, loss to follow-up),
imprecise estimates of effects, and indirectness of the
evidence.19
However, the available evidence does suggest that early
thrombus removal strategies for iliofemoral venous thrombosis are associated with significant reductions in manifestations
of the postthrombotic syndrome as well as improvements in
the surrogate markers of valvular incompetence (reflux) and
persistent venous obstruction.19 Competing risks include those associated with surgery (surgical thrombectomy) and bleeding (thrombolytic strategies). Systematic review of comparative studies suggests that adverse
events are poorly reported overall19 and that caution is
warranted in ensuring patients are appropriately selected.
The balance of risks vs benefits for individual early
thrombus removal strategies are further discussed