cacy
of CEA and CAS in the management of extracranial carotid stenosis.9-12 A meta-analysis comparing CAS and
CEA, which included some of these trials, was published
in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.13 Another recent
meta-analysis conducted by the Mayo Clinic Evidence
Practice Center and comparing CAS and CEA for symptomatic standard surgical risk patients also will be reported in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.14
In 2011, the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) published clinical practice guidelines for the management of extracranial carotid artery disease in the
Journal of Vascular Surgery. 15 A multispecialty document also was published on the “Management of Patients with Extracranial Carotid and Vertebral Artery
Disease.“16 More recently, the European Society for
Vascular Surgery published their guidelines “Management of Atherosclerotic Carotid and Vertebral Artery
Disease: 2017 Clinical Practice Guidelines of the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS).“17 Because
of these publications, the Society for Vascular Surgery
elected to update their 2011 guidelines, because
vascular surgeons play a major, if not predominant,
role in the treatment of patients with carotid bifurcation disease.

METHODS
Guideline framework
The writing committee met several times, both in person and via several conference calls, to select the most
important issues and questions of major interest to the
clinician to be addressed in the clinical practice guidelines. A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted by the Mayo Clinic Evidence Practice Center to
address these questions, which will be reported separately in the Journal of Vascular Surgery. These ﬁve issues
and questions were as follows:
1. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy
for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in low surgical risk
patients?

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

7S

Volume 75, Number 1S

2. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral (TF)-CAS for
low surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid
artery stenosis of >50%?
3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention in
patients presenting with acute stroke?
4. Screening