 per aneurysms and not per patients and to present evidence on all outcomes, we summarized data from several selected existing systematic
reviews. Supplementary Table I (online only) includes
details of the two clinical questions in the patients, intervention, comparison, outcomes (PICO) format.
A comprehensive search of several databases from database inception to June 15th, 2018 was conducted without
language restrictions. The databases included MEDLINE
Epub Ahead of Print, Medline In-Process & Other NonIndexed Citations, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Central
Register of Controlled Trials, Cochrane Database of
Systematic Reviews, and Scopus. The search strategy was
designed and conducted by a medical reference librarian
with input from the investigators. Controlled vocabulary
supplemented with keywords was used to search for
studies of open or endovascular repair of PAAs. The actual
strategy is available in the Appendix (online only).
Study selection, data extraction, and methodologic
quality assessment. Studies were selected and data
were extracted by pairs of independent reviewers. Data
extracted included patient and setting description, procedure description, risk of bias indicators and outcome
data. Because the studies were nonrandomized, we
used the Newcastle Ottawa tool5 to assess the risk of
bias. This tool evaluates three main domains: cohort
selection, comparability, and outcome assessment. We
did not calculate a score; rather, we made a global
judgment about the risk of bias in each study.6
Statistical analysis and certainty in evidence. We
calculated the odds ratio (OR) with 95% conﬁdence interval (CI) for primary and secondary outcomes, as well as
determined an incidence rate ratio for amputations
across the studies. Thus, the OR of a bad outcome (amputation) in which the intervention reduces the outcome
would be less than one and for a beneﬁcial intervention
(patency) would be greater than one. Because of anticipated heterogeneity, the DerSimonian and Laird random
effects model7 was used to pool estimates from the
included studies. The I2 statistic was used to estimate
heterogeneity. Analysis was done using R Statistical
Computing software version 4.0.0 (The R Foundation,
Vienna, Austria). Data were insufﬁcient to conduct

ARTICLE H