 However, in everyday

practice and across different hospital settings, tissuebased diagnosis of a TIA episode may vary depending on
the availability and type of brain MRI machines.
The US tissue-based imaging deﬁnition of TIA and the
silent pathology equivalence to stroke as described elsewhere in this article are at odds with time-based clinical
deﬁnitions endorsed by the World Health Organization,
European Stroke Organization, European Society for
Vascular Surgery, and the World Stroke Organisation.10,17-19 The implications of not arriving at a universal
deﬁnition of TIA and stroke are far-reaching. They may
include differences in reporting of incidence and prevalence rates and differences in reporting of neurologic
events after interventions, as well as changes in life insurance premiums.17 However, a recent population study
demonstrated that the broad tissue-based TIA deﬁnition
was associated with only a slight change in incidence
compared with the traditional time-based deﬁnition.20
Regardless, in the future it will be important for international organizations to reach a consensus to standardize
data reporting and research end points. In this guidelines, reported rates of TIA and stroke are based primarily
on studies that used the earlier, time-based deﬁnitions.
Etiology. Approximately 87% of all strokes are due to
ischemic cerebral infarction and 13% are hemorrhagic
(intracerebral or subarachnoid).21 The currently recognized ischemic stroke mechanisms are embolism,
decreased perfusion, and thrombosis.
Embolism may be cardiac or arterial in origin.
Commonly recognized cardiac sources for embolism
include atrial ﬁbrillation, recent acute myocardial
infarction (MI), endocarditis, cardiac tumors, and
valvular disorders. Arterial embolism is a common
cause of cerebral infarction associated with plaques of
the large extracranial (including the aortic arch) and
intracranial arteries. Stroke owing to perfusion failure
occurs with severe stenosis of the carotid and basilar artery, and when there is microstenosis of the small deep
arteries, the latter being a common cause of lacunar
infarction. In situ thrombosis may also occur owing to
a severely sten