U.36 The ulceration
penetrates the internal elastic lamina, resulting in hematoma formation within the media. The plaque may precipitate a localized intramedial dissection associated
with a variable amount of IMH within the aortic wall,
which can spread into the adventitia, forming a pseudoaneurysm or causing rupture. PAUs are typically not aneurysmal but can occur concurrently with or in the absence
of an aortic aneurysm, dissection, or IMH.
IMH can also develop in apparent isolation in patients
with mild or no atherosclerosis. Aortic IMH may represent
a variant of dissection, the so-called dissection in evolution, and is characterized by the absence of an intimal
ﬂap, re-entrant tear, or double channel with false lumen.

It is speculated that the vasa vasorum is responsible for
IMH, with elevated pressures in the vasa vasorum leading
to rupture within the aortic wall. Subsequently, progression and eventual rupture into the intima might occur,
leading to typical AD. Studies examining the vasa vasorum have also suggested that hyperplasia leading to
chronic, occlusive disease within the aortic wall can
lead to chronic medial ischemia and degeneration. The
complex pathologic processes of PAUs and IMH have
been well described,37-39 and management decisions
can often be complex, depending on the clinical presentation and anatomic location, among other important
factors.
Mycotic aneurysms and aortoesophageal and aortobronchial ﬁstulas. A mycotic (or infected) aneurysm is
deﬁned as an infectious break in the wall of an artery
with formation of a blind, often saccular outpouching
that is contiguous with the arterial lumen. Controversy
has existed as to the exact mechanisms by which primary mycotic TAAs occur; they may be due to hematogenous dissemination of microorganisms, direct
involvement of the intima, or extension from a nearby
septic focus. An intimal disruption, such as in atherosclerotic plaque, may be a site of bacterial lodgment, and
histologic specimens have often demonstrated neutrophilic inﬁltration and atherosclerotic change in the
same aortic