iﬁed, this ﬁnding suggests that the patient may
have experienced either embolization before carotid
clamping or sustained a signiﬁcant period of ischemia
during the clamping period. These etiologies may not
be formally treatable with surgical or endovascular techniques. Therefore, treatment is primarily medical,
including supportive care, hemodynamic monitoring,
and anticoagulation or antiplatelet agents as deemed
clinically appropriate.
Intraoperative stroke recognized during regional
anesthesia. If a perioperative stroke or TIA occurs during
CEA while the patient is awake under local/regional
anesthesia, stroke etiology can typically be elucidated
based on its timing during the operation. A neurologic
deﬁcit that occurs during dissection of the carotid bulb
before carotid clamping is almost certainly related to
embolization of atheromatous debris. This deﬁcit can
be minimized by avoiding signiﬁcant manipulation of
the bulb during dissection of the carotid artery until heparinization and control of the ICA has been established. If
a neurologic deﬁcit does occur during the preclamping
period, the patient should be expeditiously heparinized,
and the operation should be completed in an expedient
fashion with the placement of an intra-arterial shunt. If
the deﬁcit does not reverse with shunt placement and
completion of the surgery, additional assessment should
proceed as above, including intracerebral arteriography.
If, during local/regional anesthesia, neurologic changes
occur with test clamping of the artery, this is an indication for placement of an intra-arterial shunt. Neurologic
changes that occur during initial carotid clamping will
typically reverse with successful shunt placement. If they
do not, one must again consider the possibility that
intracerebral embolization has occurred.
Perioperative stroke recognized in the postoperative
period. If a patient awakens neurologically intact after
CEA under general anesthesia, or is initially neurologically intact during and after CEA under local anesthesia, and subsequently develops a new neurologic
deﬁcit in the postoperative period, the differential
diagnosis may be more complex. The likely etiology
and treatment may depend on the timing of the
de