 as a reﬂection of
the degree of conﬁdence in the estimated treatment effect. Rating the quality of the evidence (also termed the
certainty of evidence) as A, B, or C starts with the study
design. Because they are less subject to bias, RCTs will
have the highest level of evidence, with other sources of
evidence, such as observational studies, ranked lower in
the hierarchy. This rating can be downgraded when (1)
the RCT has serious methodologic limitations such as
inadequate blinding, allocation concealment, or loss to
follow-up; (2) the results were inconsistent among the
RCTs; (3) the RCTs were indirectly relevant (ie, did not
directly apply to the patients, interventions, or outcomes
of interest); (4) the results were imprecise owing to the
small number of studies and events, or wide conﬁdence
intervals for both beneﬁts and harm were present; and
(5) a reporting bias was likely to be present.28,29 For grade
A recommendations, conﬁdence in the treatment effect is
high, and further research would be unlikely to change
the estimate of effect. In contrast, for grade C recommendations, further research would be very likely to affect the
estimate of the effect.

The second component of GRADE is to determine the
strength of a recommendation, which includes an assessment of the relative balance between the potential beneﬁts
and harm of an intervention, patient values and preferences, and other contextual factors. The implications of a
grade 1, or strong recommendation, are that the potential
beneﬁts of an intervention clearly outweigh the potential
harms and burdens; and virtually all well-informed patients
would choose such an intervention, and the physician can
conﬁdently recommend the treatment without a detailed
knowledge of the underlying data. In contrast, for grade 2
or weak recommendations, the beneﬁts and risks will be
more balanced or uncertain; thus, different patients could
choose different treatment options according to their
values and preference. The physician must be familiar
with the underlying data before making such a recommendation and should counsel patients appropriately. The present guidelines have used the word “recommend” for grade
1 or strong recommendations and the word “suggest” for
grade 2 or weak recommendations.