 also reduce the incidence of the
postthrombotic syndrome, no reports have evaluated the
adjunctive effect of compression stockings in this patient
population. The evidence supporting the use of compression stockings among patients treated with early thrombus
removal strategies is indirect, but the potential benefits
likely exceed the risks, and their use can be strongly recommended (Grade 1C).
VALUES STATEMENT
The committee incorporated certain factors other than
evidence in formulating the recommendations presented in
these guidelines. The explicit identification of such factors
is important for guideline users and represents an advantage
of using the GRADE system. The committee recognizes
the poor quality of evidence supporting several of the
recommendations, particularly arising from the common
use of surrogate end points (eg, degree of lysis, venous
reflux and patency) and the sparse data demonstrating the
relative efficacy of different treatment strategies on patientimportant outcomes (eg, death, pulmonary embolism, recurrence of DVT, quality of life, and time to return to
work). The committee placed a relatively high value on
preventing DVT and the postthrombotic syndrome. We
also considered the availability of surgical/interventional
expertise and the resources needed for more aggressive
approaches. In recommending the thrombolytic techniques over surgical thrombectomy, we placed a higher
value on avoiding the potential complications of an infrequently performed surgical procedure. In recommending
stents for lesions uncovered by thrombus removal, we
highly valued the avoidance of complications related to
untreated iliac stenosis, despite the lack of comparative
data. In recommending compression stockings, we considered this intervention to be relatively inexpensive, to not
require expertise, and able to be applied on a large scale.
Indirect evidence was occasionally used due to lack of more
direct evidence.
Evidence-based medicine has been defined as “the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of the current best
evidence in making decisions about the care of individual
patients.”101 This specifically involves integrating clinical expertise, the patient’s individual situation and preferences, and
the best available clinical evidence. The guidelines of the
Society for Vascular Surgery and American Venous Forum
should be interpreted as a guide to be applied in the context of
clinical judgment rather than as a rigid mandate. Furthermore,
there are many aspects of early thrombus removal strategies
for which little