: DU scanning and imaging
studies. Although DU can be used as a diagnostic tool for
access stenosis, it has some limitations, especially for identifying lesions behind bone, as in subclavian vein stenosis. A
major advantage is that it is noninvasive. If an etiology for
access dysfunction is not identified by DU scanning, an
imaging study should be performed. A contrast imaging
study or other imaging studies such as MRA of the access is the
gold standard for documenting stenosis. Because it is expensive and invasive, it should be reserved for those patients in
whom abnormal clinical monitoring or access surveillance
has predicted a high likelihood of hemodynamically
(⬎50%) significant stenosis. This contrast study should
include the arterial inflow, the actual access, its outflow
vein, and central vein. If a significant stenosis is detected, a
balloon angioplasty can be performed at the same sitting.
In the event that no obstructing lesion is identified, a
physiologic etiology causing low access flow is likely and
should be investigated by an access flow study.
Preemptive angioplasty associated with monitoring
and surveillance. As mentioned previously, a number of
observational studies (using historical controls) have shown
a substantial reduction in the rate of graft thrombosis after
implementing a program of stenosis monitoring or surveillance with preemptive angioplasty. More recently, six randomized clinical trials have evaluated the efficacy of this
approach in reducing graft thrombosis or prolonging graft
longevity. These studies have used a variety of surveillance
methods, including static dialysis venous pressures, flow
monitoring, and DU imaging. In each of these studies, the
intervention group had a substantially higher rate of preemptive angioplasty. Despite that, access surveillance failed
to improve thrombosis-free graft survival or overall (cumulative) graft survival in five of the six studies.76,95,100-102

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

16S Sidawy et al

Only one of the six studies (using DU scanning) demonstrated a reduction in graft thrombosis and an improvement in access longevity.103
The randomized studies of access surveillance have
been fairly small in size (