 and
endosclerosis. Existing data suggest that compression
after sclerotherapy improves the clinical disappearance
of superﬁcial veins and reduces pigmentation and
bruising. The preponderance of evidence suggests that
compression should be considered an integral part of
management after sclerotherapy. However, despite
several consensus statements, no conclusion can been
reached on the basis of current data as to the best
method, dose, or duration of compression that achieves
optimal results after sclerotherapy.19,50-52 A key component in all of the studies analyzing compression treatment for venous disease is the issue of compliance,
and in most studies this outcome is not reported.
Well-designed RCTs are needed to provide deﬁnitive
information.
The impact of compression on the efﬁcacy of foam
sclerotherapy remains to be determined as this is only
one of the confounding variables affecting outcomes.
The evidence for compression recommendations is

incomplete, but the standard of care and current
medical practice of those treating varicose veins
are to recommend and to perform some form of
compression.

4. COMPRESSION AFTER TREATMENT OF
SUPERFICIAL VEINS IN PATIENTS WITH VENOUS
LEG ULCERS
Guideline 4.1: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment
in patients with a venous leg ulcer
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer, we recommend
compression therapy over no compression therapy to
increase venous leg ulcer healing rate and to decrease the
risk of ulcer recurrence. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.2: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment
in patients with a mixed arterial and venous leg ulcer
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer and underlying arterial
disease, we suggest limiting the use of compression to
patients with ankle-brachial index exceeding 0.5 or if
absolute ankle pressure is >60 mm Hg. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - C]

A total of seven relevant publications were identiﬁed,57-63
of which one was a systematic review,58 one was a guideline published by the AVF and the SVS,57 and ﬁve were
nonrandomized observational studies.59-63 The AVF/SVS
