 literature described earlier from the Mayo Clinic94 and the

18S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

5. Surveillance and follow-up
Recommendations for surveillance and follow-up of SAA patients
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

5.1

In patients in whom an SAA is being observed with a nonoperative or noninterventional
approach, we suggest annual surveillance with CT or ultrasound to assess for growth
in size.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

5.2

After endovascular intervention for SAAs, we suggest periodic surveillance with CTA,
ultrasound, or MRA to assess for the possibility of endoleak or aneurysm reperfusion
that could lead to a continued risk of aneurysm growth or rupture.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Cleveland Clinic.93 There were again no ruptures or other
complications attributed to the aneurysms in the
observed group.
In the study of Saltzberg et al,105 a total of 38 visceral aneurysms were observed during a mean follow-up period
of 31 months, including 5 celiac aneurysms and 25
splenic aneurysms. The mean diameter in the observation group was 2 cm. No known ruptures or interventions
occurred in the observation group, but complete followup was available in only 50% of the patients.

Treatment failure including persistent perfusion, recanalization, and coil migration has been observed. The potential for early or late failure, such as growth in sac size
or leak that would require reintervention, requires early
and serial imaging follow-up.93,97 Because artifact due
to the radiopaque materials used may make sensitive
CT evaluation difﬁcult, some authors recommend
contrast-enhanced ultrasound or MRI as follow-up imaging techniques.6,97

CELIAC ARTERY ANEURYSM (CAA)

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of CAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

We suggest CTA as the initial diagnostic tool of choice for CAAs.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

1.2

We suggest M