 recent years has transformed the techniques of perforator ablation.351-356 Advantages of percutaneous ablation of perforators (PAPS) include the low risk of a minimally invasive procedure that is
easily repeatable and can be performed under local anesthesia in an office setting.357
Techniques of perforator ablation
Subfascial endoscopic perforator vein surgery. SEPS is
performed under general or epidural anesthesia. The single
or the double endoscopic port techniques can be used for
dissection and division of medial calf perforators.62,348-350
Most authors use balloon dissection and carbon dioxide
insufflation with a pressure of 30 mm Hg and a pneumatic
thigh tourniquet inflated to 300 mm Hg to avoid any
bleeding in the surgical field.358 Division of the fascia of the
deep posterior compartment with a paratibial fasciotomy is
required to identify all important medial perforating veins.
Occlusion of the perforators can be done with endoscopic
clips, although most surgeons use an ultrasonic harmonic
scalpel for division and transection of the perforators. The
wounds are closed, the tourniquet is deflated, and the
extremity is wrapped with an elastic bandage. The operation is an outpatient procedure, and patients are encouraged to ambulate 3 hours after the operation.
Percutaneous ablation of perforators. PAPS is performed under ultrasound guidance, with direct needle
puncture of the perforating vein. Local anesthesia is used,
with the patient in the reversed Trendelenburg position to
allow for full venous distention. The tip of the needle
should be at or just below the fascia in the vein to minimize
deep vessel and nerve injury.
Radiofrequency ablation. The ClosureRFS Stylet is a
new intravascular ablation device (VNUS Medical Technologies, San Jose, Calif) available for RFA of the perforating vein. Intraluminal placement of the RF stylet is confirmed by ultrasonography and also by measuring
impedance: values between 150 and 350 ohms indicate the
intravascular location of the tip of the probe. Local anesthesia is used to infiltrate the tissues around the