 rarely be necessary for preinterventional planning when noninvasive studies have not

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

15S

Volume 72, Number 1S

sufﬁciently demonstrated the status of relevant anatomy or
collateral blood ﬂow. However, it is most frequently performed at the time of a planned endovascular intervention.

pseudoaneurysms are at increased risk for rupture
and that diameter is not necessarily a reliable predictor
of rupture.92

2. Treatment indications, size criteria, and true vs false aneurysms
Recommended criteria for invasive intervention for SAA
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

We recommend emergent intervention for ruptured SAAs.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

2.2

We recommend treatment of nonruptured splenic artery pseudoaneurysms of any size
in patients of acceptable risk because of the possibility of rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.3

We recommend treating nonruptured splenic artery true aneurysms of any size in
women of childbearing age because of the risk of rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.4

We recommend treating nonruptured splenic artery true aneurysms $3 cm, with a
demonstrable increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients of acceptable
risk because of the risk of rupture.

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

2.5

We suggest observation over repair for small (<3 cm), stable asymptomatic splenic
artery true aneurysms or those in patients with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities or
limited life expectancies.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

The natural history of visceral aneurysms and their potential for rupture or other complications are relatively
poorly deﬁned because of their overall scarcity. However,
it is clear even from the numerous case series in the literature that a signiﬁcant proportion of visceral artery aneurysms present with rupture; therefore, a relatively
aggressive approach to their diagnosis and management
certainly seems warranted. The overall mortality of
ruptured SAAs is as high as 25%.87
SAAs in young women are thought to have a particular
tendency toward rupture, especially during