ysms,
including 44 splenic aneurysms and 6 celiac aneurysms. Of the celiac aneurysms, one was ruptured at
a diameter of 17 mm.

20S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

In the appropriate clinical scenario, speciﬁcally in patients with pancreatitis or infected pancreatic pseudocysts, coexisting CAAs should be suspected to be
mycotic in nature. Although the literature is sparse in
this subgroup, they should be excised regardless of size,
given the high risk of progression to rupture.

Aneurysmorrhaphy for isolated saccular lesions of the celiac artery has also been reported.87
Endovascular approaches to managing CAAs offer the
potential beneﬁt of low procedural morbidity and mortality and are generally considered to be the preferred
initial approach to most anatomically suitable visceral an-

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of CAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

In patients with ruptured CAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest ligation if
sufﬁcient collateral circulation to the liver can be documented.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.2

In patients with ruptured CAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies who
are stable, we recommend treatment with open surgical or appropriate
endovascular methods based on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical
condition.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

3.3

For the elective treatment of CAA, we suggest using an endovascular intervention
if it is anatomically feasible. However, elective treatment may appropriately
involve open surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods of intervention,
depending on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.4

To determine the need for revascularization of the celiac artery and its branches
in treating CAA, we suggest evaluating the status of the superior mesenteric
artery, gastroduodenal artery, and other relevant collateral circulation, which
must be carefully documented on preoperative CTA or angiography.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Historically, surgical treatment of CAAs was the only
feasible option for management.