 and our recommendation
requires judicious and selective application. In fact, some
observational studies support the safety and efficacy of carotid
endarterectomy in some of these excluded groups.18,19 Case
by case decision-making, involvement of patients’ values and
preferences, as well as surgeons experience and surgical center
outcomes should be considered.

There are no data to suggest that carotid endarterectomy
is less effective than medical management in any cohort of
patients with symptomatic high-grade (ⱖ50%) carotid stenosis. In addition, no data exist to support or refute the value of
endarterectomy for the management of symptomatic patients
with nonstenotic but severely ulcerated plaques. While there
could be a subset of symptomatic patients with less than 50%
stenosis that might benefit from CEA, current published data
do not permit identification of such a cohort.
Values statement
In recommending endarterectomy for symptomatic patients with moderate to severe (ⱖ50%) carotid stenosis, the
committee placed a relatively higher value on preventing
the outcome of stroke with the associated disability and
morbidity and a relatively lower value on avoiding the
downsides of endarterectomy (cost, perioperative complications such as death, and myocardial infarction).
Carotid endarterectomy
Through a longitudinal or transverse incision, after
systemic heparin administration the internal, common and
external carotid arteries are sequentially occluded with
atraumatic vascular clamps. A longitudinal incision is made
anteriorly in the common carotid artery proximal to the
obviously diseased segment, and extended distally along
the anterior surface of the internal carotid artery beyond the
offending plaque. If a shunt is elected it is inserted at this
time. Dividing the digastric muscle distally or the omohyoid muscle proximally may increase exposure.
The endarterectomy is begun by carefully developing a
subadvential plane with a freer dissector in the common
carotid artery, completed circumferentially, feathered to a
good end-point proximally and continued distally, everting
the plaque out of the external carotid artery and then
completed in the internal carotid artery where the plaque
transitions into normal