 that in most instances they are able to return
to work whilst wearing compression bandaging or
hosiery.”
Thus, it is clear that the real issue may not be compression after venous surgery but that the compression
needs to be tailored to the overall status of the venous
insufﬁciency. In a patient with only superﬁcial venous
reﬂux, compression may not be needed at all or may
be needed only for the ﬁrst few hours to days, whereas
for patients with signiﬁcant deep venous insufﬁciency
and deep venous reﬂux, compression is likely to be
needed not only in the postoperative period but also
long term.

3. COMPRESSION AFTER SCLEROTHERAPY
Guideline 3.1: Compression therapy after sclerotherapy.
We suggest compression therapy over no compression
therapy immediately after treatment of superﬁcial veins
with sclerotherapy to improve outcomes of sclerotherapy.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.2: Duration of compression therapy after
sclerotherapy.
In the absence of convincing evidence we recommend best
clinical judgment to determine the duration of compression
therapy after sclerotherapy. [BEST PRACTICE]

A total of 18 relevant publications were identiﬁed34,35,37-52;
1 was a systematic review,40 2 were guidelines,51,52 1 was a
consensus document,50 2 were opinion papers,38,39
4 were RCTs,37,42,44,45 and 8 were nonrandomized observational studies.34,35,41,43,46-49 Included studies were heterogeneous with regard to measured outcomes and the
modality, duration, and dose of compression. The majority

of observational studies did not have comparison groups.
None of the included RCTs used outcome measures
differentially for asymptomatic cosmetic and symptomatic
medical patients.
Most physicians treating varicose veins advocate the
use of compression after sclerotherapy. The duration
and degree of compression are, however, controversial.
Graduated compression therapy reduces the risk of
DVT, edema, and superﬁcial phlebitis; immediate
compression allows more direct apposition of