2%).268-271 Alternative treatments, including combined
CEA and CABG, staged CEA and CABG, or CAS and
CABG have all been reported.
A review of the literature to date suggests that CEA,
followed by CABG, is associated with the lowest stroke
rate, whereas combined CEA and CABG carries a higher
mortality rate, and delayed CEA is associated with the
lowest mortality but the highest stroke rate. Most studies
are retrospective reviews, and there is no evidence that
patient groups are comparable. However, in a metaanalysis, Naylor et al269 found that the total stroke/MI/
death rate associated with any combination CEA and
CABG ranges from 9% to 12%.
In contrast to patients with neurologic symptoms
and those with severe bilateral carotid bifurcation stenosis, the management of patients requiring cardiac surgery
in whom unilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis has
been identified is not established. Documentation of a
increase in the perioperative stroke rate in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who have been identified as
having concomitant carotid disease has been well established for decades.272 An increase in the incidence of
CVA in the perioperative period for patients undergoing
cardiac surgery has been demonstrated for patients with
a carotid bruit, carotid stenosis ⬎50%, or a history of TIA
or CVA. Stenoses ⬍70% do not appear to be associated
with increased stroke.271,273
Unfortunately, the literature is not consistent with
regard to the degree of stenosis reported as “significant” or
the criteria for screening and quantifying stenosis. As a
result, accurate assessment of the stroke risk associated with
an asymptomatic stenosis in CABG patients is not possible
at this time. It remains uncertain if correction of carotid
disease before cardiac surgery is effective in lowering the
perioperative rate of CVA for those patients. Only two
randomized controlled trials have compared combined
CEA/CABG with a strategy of CABG first and delayed
CEA in patients with unilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Hertzer et al274 demonstrated reduced combined

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR