(21% to 5%) and a signiﬁcant reduction of recurrent events
before CEA (13% to 3%). In the absence of high-quality evidence, it may seem reasonable to offer heparin plus
aspirin or dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with a
recurrent TIAs or crescendo TIAs before urgent CEA.
Urgent CEA in these patients has been associated with
an increased risk of stroke compared with elective interventions. However, results of surgery in patients with crescendo TIAs are better than those for stroke in
evolution.355,356 CEA in neurologically unstable patients
(ie, stroke in evolution, crescendo TIA) carries a higher
than average procedural risk when performed in the
elective setting. However, without surgery there is a signiﬁcant chance of another major neurologic event. A
meta-analysis reported that stroke and death risk after
CEA were 20.2% in patients undergoing CEA for stroke
in evolution and 11.4% in patients undergoing CEA for
crescendo TIA. However, in select patients with an area
of infarction volume less than 30% of the MCA territory,
emergency CEA can be performed with a 2% to 8%
risk of stroke/death among patients with stroke in evolution and 0% to 2% among patients presenting with crescendo TIAs.357 Although there were no data comparing
CAS with CEA in these patients, the presumptive increase in embolic potential of these plaques suggested
that CEA would be preferred to CAS when the former
is feasible.
Acute postoperative stroke or occlusion. Patients who
undergo carotid intervention may suffer stroke in the
early post intervention period. The goal of treatment is
to expeditiously restore intracranial blood ﬂow to normal
levels and to identify the etiology of the stroke.
Until proven otherwise, a stroke that occurs immediately after CEA is considered secondary to a technical
defect at the operative site. Other etiologies of stroke in
the immediate postoperative period include embolization, intraoperative watershed infarct and intracranial
hemorrhage. The status of the endarterectomy site
should be determined expeditiously, and in most cases,
this