, new symptoms, or residual visible
varicose veins, they should be reassessed with physical
examination and DU to determine the cause of the residual symptoms and whether treatment of visible varicose veins has been incomplete. The authors of these
practice guidelines recommend that all patients who
have undergone a venous intervention for varicose veins
have at least one follow-up visit at w3 months, when the
symptoms related to the procedure are likely to have
resolved, and the patients with residual symptoms or
visible residual varicose veins should be reassessed using
DU of the truncal, tributary, deep, and perforator veins
throughout the entire leg. The DU study should be used
to identify the treated veins with both complete and
incomplete closure, residual untreated tributary veins,
and incompetent deep and perforator veins. If all intended truncal and tributary veins have been treated and
yet the symptoms persist, other potential causes of the
persistent symptoms should be considered, including
residual incompetent tributary veins and IPVs, because
they could represent the origin of the symptomatic
varicose veins.
Evidence. In a prospective study of 127 limbs in 92 patients, including 58 limbs with C2 disease, van Rij
et al205 performed ﬂush ligation of the SFJ or SPJ, stripping of the GSV to the knee, and multiple stab avulsions
and ligation of IPVs that had marked reﬂux. Deep venous
reﬂux was present in 68 limbs (53.5%). After 3 years,
recurrence of reﬂux at the SFJ and SPJ was 23% and 52%,
respectively. Additionally, IPVs had progressively
increased in number, with an overall clinical recurrence
of 51% at 3 to 5 years. Of the 53 limbs with a normal
venous ﬁlling index after surgery, 29 (55%) had deteriorated at 3 years. The investigators had concluded that
incomplete superﬁcial surgery, in particular at the SFJ
and SPJ, is a less frequent cause of recurrent disease and
that neovascular reconnection and persistent abnormal
venous function are the major contributors to disease
recurrence.
In a retrospective study