 existing evidence is inadequate to support a deﬁnitive recommendation at this time.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 29S

Recommendations: Postinterventional medical therapy in intermittent claudication (IC)

5.24.

5.25.
5.26.

In all patients after endovascular or open surgical intervention for claudication, we recommend
optimal medical therapy (antiplatelets agents, statins, antihypertensives, control of glycemia,
smoking cessation).
In patients undergoing lower extremity bypass (venous or prosthetic), we suggest treatment with
antiplatelet therapy (aspirin, clopidogrel, or aspirin plus clopidogrel).
In patients undergoing infrainguinal endovascular intervention for claudication, we suggest
treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel for at least 30 days.

Endovascular intervention
Limited data are available regarding therapies targeted at
preventing restenosis or occlusion after endovascular procedures in patients with IC. A recent systematic review of four
prospective randomized trials did not demonstrate any
improvement in patency at 12 months with ASA compared
with placebo.240 Nonetheless, antiplatelet therapy may be
warranted in patients undergoing EVT for claudication as
part of an aggressive medical treatment program to prevent
long-term cardiovascular complications such as stroke and
myocardial infarction. In addition, the same review evaluated
the potential effect of using higher-dose ASA (3001000 mg) compared with lower-dose ASA (50-300 mg).
No beneﬁcial effect was observed with higher doses.240
Two RCTs investigated the effect of anticoagulation and
cilostazol on patency. Koppensteiner et al241 compared the
use of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and ASA vs
ASA alone in patients undergoing popliteal angioplasty.
Improved patency was observed in patients treated with
LMWH for with CLI, but this effect was not observed in patients treated for claudication.241 Iida et al242 observed a
decrease in restenosis and reocclusion at