 for the management of DVT and is therefore indirect, for the management of ARTE the level of evidence has been
downgraded to C.
Further research is needed regarding the natural history
of ARTE. More data is particularly needed regarding the
value of anticoagulation vs serial follow-up and the duration of anticoagulation in treated patients. Given the uncertainty of the evidence, at present, duration of
anticoagulation should be at the judgment of the
clinician.
Evidence. The management of symptomatic DVT is
generally guided by the Chest guidelines for Antithrombotic Therapy for VTE Disease253 and the reader is
referred to that manuscript for the supporting evidence.
Unfortunately, the data regarding the management of
ARTE are substantially less robust. The evidence
regarding the treatment of ultrasound detected (most
presumably asymptomatic) ARTE is derived from small
case series and retrospective studies and is accordingly
quite variable. One systematic review evaluated the
management of ARTE detected by routine ultrasound
screening in 24 studies for which the treatment was
described.236 Among the 25 included studies, anticoagulation was the most common treatment for EHIT, with
two studies reporting selective use of antiplatelet therapy and seven studies reporting observation only. Irrespective of treatment, there were no reports of
propagation or embolization of EHIT II to IV once identiﬁed. The authors concluded that the natural history of
EHIT is generally benign (Table XXIII).
12. Management of SVT in patients with varicose and
nonvaricose veins
Guideline 12. Address the management of SVT in patients who have not recently undergone superﬁcial
venous interventions. The management of EHIT and
other thrombotic complications of superﬁcial venous interventions were presented in Guidelines 11.
12.1.1. For patients with SVT of the main saphenous
trunks and tributaries above the knee >3 cm from
the SFJ and $5 cm in length, whether or not associated with varicose veins, we recommend fondaparinux
2.5 mg subcutaneously daily for 45 days; alternatively,
rivaroxaban 10 mg/d for 45 days may be appropriate
for patients unwilling or unable to perform