 trial comparing these two treatment strategies.
As such, depending on patient comorbidities and
anatomic factors such as the presence of an optimal
conduit, both OAR and EVAR remain important tools in

124S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Beuschel et al

January Supplement 2022

the management of patients with PAAs. A systematic
review of the natural history data of asymptomatic PAAs
suggests that PAAs present a signiﬁcant risk of thromboembolic complications that may lead to limb loss.
Therefore, consideration of an appropriately timed
intervention to treat such aneurysms is an important
strategy.
Strengths and limitations. The current systematic review followed a rigorous approach, including searching
multiple databases, reviewing the literature by independent pairs of reviewers, and collaboration with content
experts from the Society for Vascular Surgery.
A clear limitation in this body of evidence is the small
sample size of series of a rare condition.
The lack of anatomic variables to allow patient selection
for the endovascular approach is another major limitation.
A planned subgroup analyses were not feasible owing to
the lack of available information. Particularly, we were unable to stratify the analysis comparing emergent from
elective cases as this distinction was not explicitly made
in many of the published series. Similarly, data on other
patient important outcomes such as acute limb ischemia,
late conversion from endovascular to open repair, and
quality of life were insufﬁcient to estimate a treatment
effect. Randomized trials of treatments of PAAS are challenging. Future research efforts could focus on establishing rigorous multicenter registries that document the
clinical and anatomic presentations, treatment choices
and outcomes of PAAs.

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: BB, TN, AF, MM
Analysis and interpretation: BB, TN, MM
Data collection: BB, TN, AK, AH, MA, SV
Writing the article: BB, TN, MM
Critical revision of the article: BB, TN, AK, AH, MA, SV, AF,
MM
Final approval of the article: BB, TN, AK, AH, MA, SV, AF,
MM
Statistical analysis: BB, TN
Obtained funding: MM
Overall responsibility: MM

REFERENCES
1. Dawson I, Sie RB, van Bockel JH. Atheroscler