TA or MRA or arteriography in
select cases, and long-term follow-up with surveillance
imaging. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
5.2: For patients managed nonoperatively, we suggest
annual surveillance imaging until two consecutive studies
are stable; thereafter, surveillance imaging may be
extended to every 2 to 3 years. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
Splenic artery aneurysm (SAA). 1.1: We recommend
computed tomography angiography as the initial diagnostic tool of choice for SAAs. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
1.2: In patients with suspected SAAs and pre-existing
renal insufﬁciency limiting the use of iodinated contrast
material, we recommend magnetic resonance angiography to establish diagnosis. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
1.3: We recommend using arteriography when noninvasive studies have not sufﬁciently demonstrated the status
of relevant collateral blood ﬂow and when endovascular
intervention is planned. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.1: We recommend emergent intervention for
ruptured SAAs. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
2.2: We recommend treatment of nonruptured splenic
artery pseudoaneurysms of any size in patients of acceptable risk because of the possibility of rupture. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.3: We recommend treating nonruptured splenic
artery true aneurysms of any size in women of childbearing age because of the risk of rupture. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.4: We recommend treating nonruptured splenic
artery true aneurysms >3 cm, with a demonstrable
increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients
of acceptable risk because of the risk of rupture.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low).
2.5: