).

in maximal and pain-free walking distance has been seen
compared with placebo; however, no beneﬁt has been noted
over exercise alone.99,100 It is available in the United States
over-the-counter as a dietary supplement.
4C. Exercise therapy for claudication
Exercise therapy has been a cornerstone in the management of IC for >40 years and has been the subject of case
series, randomized trials, and meta-analyses (Table II). Exercise programs for patients with IC have been found to increase the distance to onset of claudication and increase the
distance to maximum claudication pain. A meta-analysis of
1200 patients determined exercise therapy, compared with
placebo or usual care, provides an overall improvement in
walking ability of 50% to 200%, with improvements maintained for up to 2 years.101 The American Heart Association for many years has considered the quality of the
evidence supporting exercise therapy in the treatment
of IC to be sufﬁciently robust to merit a Level I
recommendation.43
Mechanism of beneﬁt of exercise therapy. Exercise
therapy is in essence athletic training, albeit on a much
more limited scale than that generally associated with
competitive athletes. Exercise therapy alone has been associated with improvement in walking biomechanics but not an
improvement in resting ABI.102 An underlying biochemical
mechanism of beneﬁt is therefore highly likely, but the
precise mechanisms are unknown. Among the potential

biomechanical or biochemical mechanisms of beneﬁt of
exercise therapy include are enlargement of existing collateral vessels, exercise induced angiogenesis, enhanced nitric
oxide (NO) endothelium-dependent vasodilatation of the
microcirculation, improved bioenergetics of skeletal muscle,
and improved hemorrheology.
Requirements for exercise therapy. Participation in
an exercise program for IC ﬁrst requires an objective
diagnosis, with vascular laboratory testing conﬁrming
the presence of PAD. Such testing may include measurement of the ABI, exercise treadmill testing or peripheral
arterial duplex scanning, or both. Initiation of risk factor
modiﬁcation for atherosclerotic risk factors is a component of any exercise program. At a minimum, therapy
with aspirin and statin medications should also be considered as pharmacologic adjuncts to