 arterial and venous location is another
strategy to optimize use of vein segments that have matured, while excluding diseased segments.
Poor venous outflow can also be caused by early anastomotic stenoses, which are technical errors, usually manifest as early thrombosis, but they can also lead to nonfunctionality or failure to mature in autogenous accesses. When
diagnosed ⱕ7 days of access construction, surgical revision
should be performed. When such stenoses are diagnosed
later, balloon angioplasty can be performed initially. Care
must be taken when approaching the arterial anastomosis.
Arterial embolization can result from clot fragmentation or
dislodgement of the arterial plug, and intimal dissection
can occur from vessel damage caused by the wire or thrombectomy device.
B. Thrombosis. Thrombosis is the most common complication of AV access, accounting for a major source of
morbidity, hospitalization, and cost. A thrombosed access
is not patent and nonfunctional. Access thrombosis can
occur for a variety of reasons and can be classified into
thrombosis that occurs early (perioperative, 0-30 days) and
late (⬎30 days) in the life of an access. It is very important
to note that thrombectomy alone may not result in longterm patency of the access if the etiology of the thrombosis
is not addressed at the same sitting or shortly thereafter.
A stenosis is usually found along the access circuit;
therefore, the key to preventing a recurrent thrombosis of
an access is complete imaging of the arterial inflow, the
access itself, and venous outflow. The venous outflow study
should include the central venous circulation because most
accesses have more than one stenosis in their circuit and
stenoses often occur centrally.113 A retrospective review
by Sofocleous et al114 found 48 complications occurred
in 579 treated thrombosed prosthetic hemodialysis accesses. Their overall technical success rate was 81%, and
primary and secondary patency rate at 6 months were 36%
and 67%, respectively. They also found that most complications encountered during percutaneous thrombolysis or
surgical thrombectomy