ateral disease progression and associated stroke
risk. Traditional surveillance protocols for both CEA and
CAS have been very rigorous, including ultrasound examination follow-up at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months and annually
thereafter, with some variation in early postoperative surveillance.590-593
Early surveillance (eg, at 1-3 months), particularly when
intraoperative completion imaging has not been performed, helps to identify technical errors and establishes
a baseline for subsequent comparisons. Follow-up can
detect ipsilateral carotid restenosis and contralateral disease progression, thereby providing an opportunity for
timely intervention to reduce stroke risk. This notion,
however, is increasingly challenged because of the
decreasing and selective role for intervention in otherwise asymptomatic patients.462,590,594-596 A surveillance
protocol is meaningful when anticipated results are likely
to alter a medical or interventional treatment plan in a
cost-effective manner.
Duplex ultrasound examination is the standard technique to observe patients treated with CEA or CAS. The
advantages of duplex ultrasound examination for
follow-up of patients undergoing carotid revascularization are well recognized. It is noninvasive, free of complications, and readily available in vascular laboratories. CTA
and MR angiography are alternative methods for determining restenosis after carotid procedures. The attendant radiation, nephrotoxic contrast agents, and
expense incurred with these modalities means that
they are more frequently used to conﬁrm a suspected severe restenosis after CEA or CAS when a therapeutic
intervention is being considered.597
Surveillance for restenosis
As described in Section COMPLICATIONS OF CAROTID
INTERVENTION, carotid restenosis occurs in a bimodal
distribution. Restenosis is generally attributed to neointimal hyperplasia when occurring within the ﬁrst 2 years
after revascularization or to recurrence of underlying
atherosclerotic disease thereafter. As demonstrated in a
recent meta-analysis of randomized trials, the anticipated, clinically relevant incidence of restenosis 70% or
more is 5.8% after any CEA and 10% after CAS within 4
to 5 years of follow-up.462
Although an increased risk of stroke has been shown