 conservative treatment, for
either a trial period or deﬁnitive management.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.2.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the great saphenous vein, who are
candidates for intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over high ligation
and stripping of the great saphenous vein because
of less postprocedure pain and morbidity and an
earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2.2.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the small saphenous vein, who are
candidates for intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over ligation and
stripping of the small saphenous vein because of
less postprocedure pain and morbidity and an
earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.2.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the anterior accessory or posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, who are candidates
for intervention, we suggest treatment with endovenous ablation, with additional phlebectomy, if
needed, over ligation and stripping of the accessory
great saphenous vein because of less postprocedure
pain and morbidity and an earlier return to regular
activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)

2.3.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the great or small saphenous vein,
we recommend treatment with ligation and stripping of the saphenous vein if technology or expertise
in endovenous ablation is not available or if the
venous anatomy precludes endovenous treatment.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2.3.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the anterior accessory or the posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, we suggest treatment with