 much less
than for neurologically symptomatic individuals and rests
on the premise that intervention can be performed with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

minimal morbidity.5,6 Identification of these asymptomatic
patients may occur by routine screening using duplex ultrasound (DUS) imaging or selective application of DUS
imaging to high-risk individuals.
1. Screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis. To
date, there is no consensus on which patients should undergo carotid screening for the detection of carotid stenosis. The American Society of Neuroimaging21 concluded
that the efficacy of screening would be related to the
prevalence of the disease in the screened populations. When
the prevalence of stenosis is ⱖ20%, screening reduced risk
of stroke in a cost-effective manner, with intermediate
prevalence of between 5% and 20%: screening reduced the
risk of stroke in a cost-effective manner in some studies;
however, the benefit was usually marginal and was lost if
complications of the intervention ⬎5%. With a prevalence
of ⬍5%, screening has not been shown to reduce the risk of
stroke in a cost-effective manner and may be harmful.
Given these assumptions, screening of the general population is not indicated. This position is supported by
multiple professional organizations, including the National
Stroke Association,22 the Canadian Stroke Consortium23
and the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.24 The American Stroke Association/AHA Stroke Council25 concluded
that highly selected patient populations may benefit, but
screening of the general population for asymptomatic carotid stenosis was unlikely to be cost-effective and might
have the potential adverse effect of false-negative or falsepositive results. Finally, the American College of Cardiology Foundation, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography
and Interventions, Society for Vascular Medicine and Biology, Society of Interventional Radiology, and American
Society of Interventional & Therapeutic Neuroradiology
Clinical Expert Consensus Panel on Carotid Stenting recommended screening for asymptomatic patients with carotid bruit who are potential candidates for carotid intervention and for those in whom coronary artery bypass
grafting (CABG) is planned.26
a. Screening patients with asymptomatic bruit