 have reported reasonable
outcomes after redo mesenteric bypass (n ¼ 22) with a
perioperative mortality and morbidity rate of 6% and
33%, respectively, and a 1-year primary patency and survival rate of 74% and 76%, respectively. Furthermore,
alternative outﬂow sources should be considered.
Schneider et al96 reported a small series of isolated IMA
revascularizations for CMI. They stated that the revascularization was sufﬁcient to relieve the symptoms and prevent bowel infarction, although it required a welldeveloped collateral pathway.
The optimal management of asymptomatic recurrent
stenoses after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI remains unresolved. Indeed, the natural history
is even less deﬁned than for de novo mesenteric artery lesions. The basic management principles for the de novo
asymptomatic lesions are likely appropriate, although a
lower threshold for remedial intervention may be justiﬁed
given the prior symptomatology and the potential rate of
recurrent symptoms, particularly since the remedial endovascular interventions are relatively safe.

FUTURE RESEARCH
Deﬁne the natural history of symptomatic recurrent
stenosis after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the natural history of asymptomatic recurrent
stenosis after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the optimal surveillance protocol after both
endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d

Deﬁne the optimal remedial strategies after failed
endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the optimal medical treatment after revascularization for CMI
d

REFERENCES
1. Wilson DB, Mostafavi K, Craven TE, Ayerdi J, Edwards MS,
Hansen KJ. Clinical course of mesenteric artery stenosis in
elderly Americans. Arch Intern Med 2006;166:2095-100.
2. Croft RJ, Menon GP, Marston A. Does ’intestinal angina’
exist? A critical study of obstructed visceral arteries. Br J
Surg 1981;68:316-8.
3. Valentine RJ, Martin JD, Myers SI, Rossi MB, Clag