 or other biologic factors
that accurately measure the lifelong risk for development of an aortic aneurysm; (2) to discover pharmacologic agents to limit aneurysm enlargement; (3) to
characterize biomarkers or imaging-derived determinants of rupture risk; (4) to design prostheses that resist
infection and thrombosis; (5) to develop tools, intraoperative imaging or robotic systems, and improved endovascular grafts that facilitate repair in the presence of
challenging anatomy and improve the safety and accuracy of device deployment; and (6) to identify approaches that reliably treat type I and type II
endoleaksdall within the framework of enhancing
cost-effective care.
A number of areas of uncertainty also exist in the care of
patients with an AAA in the application of existing technology that would beneﬁt from further investigation.
Furthermore, given the role of sex differences in the
pathophysiologic process and outcomes of AAA, investigations in cells, animals, and humans should be
designed to assess for gender and should clearly state
related study population details so that results can be
interpreted appropriately. Whereas the following list is
not meant to be comprehensive, future research efforts
should consider addressing these topics:
What is the most cost-effective and clinically effective
surveillance protocol for the patient with a small
aneurysm?
d Should the aortic size index replace aortic diameter as
a determinant for recommending aneurysm repair?
d Do female patients beneﬁt from a reﬁned metric, such
as the aortic size index, or size threshold for recommending repair?
d

Which quality and volume metrics best identify centers
that should engage in either EVAR or OSR of an aortic
aneurysm?
d Does use of a perioperative mortality risk scoring
scheme provide beneﬁt in patient and family communication and mutual decision-making?
d Does a perioperative mortality risk scoring scheme
provide utility to surgeons, patients, and families in
guiding recommendations for repair in the high-risk
patient?
d Can perioperative mortality risk scoring schemes be
further reﬁned to enhance their predictive ability?
d Does a frailty assessment enhance our ability to identify those patients who will not beneﬁt from aneurysm
repair?
d Can a single risk-beneﬁt scoring scheme be developed
that incorporates risk of repair, risk of aneurys