lications. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)

96S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

3. We suggest that the SMA is the primary target for
revascularization. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We suggest that the celiac axis and IMA are secondary
targets for revascularization and that revascularization
may aid in symptom relief if the SMA is not suitable
for intervention or the technical result is not acceptable. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
5. In patients with symptoms consistent with CMI and
occlusive disease isolated to a single mesenteric
vessel, particularly the SMA, we suggest a shared
decision-making approach between the patient and
provider to discuss revascularization as a treatment
option. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD,
we suggest a shared decision-making approach between the patient and provider to discuss revascularization
as
a
treatment
option.
Level
of
recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
7. We recommend that asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD be closely followed for symptoms consistent with CMI. A possible follow-up schedule includes
an annual evaluation with a mesenteric DUS. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
8. In patients with severe MAOD involving the SMA undergoing aortic reconstruction, both open and endovascular, we suggest a shared decision-making
approach between the patient and provider to
discuss revascularization as a treatment option. Level
of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
9. In patients with combined MAOD and mesenteric artery aneurysms, we recommend revascularization at
the time of treatment for their mesenteric artery aneurysms if the repair alone would disrupt the collateral network. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)

Rationale and background
Treatment goals for patients with CMI are to reverse the
symptoms, facilitate