 2) if the benefits are closely balanced with risks and burden. The level of available evidence to support the
evaluation or treatment can be of high (A), medium (B), or low or very low (C) quality. The key recommendations of
these guidelines are: We recommend that in patients with varicose veins or more severe CVD, a complete history and
detailed physical examination are complemented by duplex ultrasound scanning of the deep and superficial veins
(GRADE 1A). We recommend that the CEAP classification is used for patients with CVD (GRADE 1A) and that the
revised Venous Clinical Severity Score is used to assess treatment outcome (GRADE 1B). We suggest compression
therapy for patients with symptomatic varicose veins (GRADE 2C) but recommend against compression therapy as the
primary treatment if the patient is a candidate for saphenous vein ablation (GRADE 1B). We recommend compression
therapy as the primary treatment to aid healing of venous ulceration (GRADE 1B). To decrease the recurrence of venous
ulcers, we recommend ablation of the incompetent superficial veins in addition to compression therapy (GRADE 1A). For
treatment of the incompetent great saphenous vein (GSV), we recommend endovenous thermal ablation (radiofrequency
or laser) rather than high ligation and inversion stripping of the saphenous vein to the level of the knee (GRADE 1B). We
recommend phlebectomy or sclerotherapy to treat varicose tributaries (GRADE 1B) and suggest foam sclerotherapy as an
option for the treatment of the incompetent saphenous vein (GRADE 2C). We recommend against selective treatment of
perforating vein incompetence in patients with simple varicose veins (CEAP class C2; GRADE 1B), but we suggest
treatment of pathologic perforating veins (outward flow duration >500 ms, vein diameter >3.5 mm) located underneath
healed or active ulcers (CEAP class C5-C6; GRADE 2B). We suggest treatment of pelvic congestion syndrome and pelvic
varices with coil embolization, plugs, or transcatheter sclerotherapy, used alone or together (GRADE 2B). ( J Vasc Surg
2011;53: