 of minimal
aortic injury
Type of repair in the
young patient
Management of left
subclavian artery
Systemic heparinization
Spinal drainage
Choice of anesthesia
Femoral access technique

Consensus
We suggest that endovascular repair be performed preferentially
over open surgical repair or nonoperative management.
We suggest urgent (⬍24 hours) repair, and at the latest prior to
hospital discharge.
We suggest expectant management with serial imaging for type
I injuries.
We suggest endovascular repair regardless of age if anatomically
suitable.
We suggest selective revascularization of the left subclavian
artery.
We suggest routine heparinization but at a lower dose than in
elective TEVAR.
We do not suggest routine spinal drainage.
We suggest general anesthesia.
We suggest open femoral exposure.

venting death is paramount in this setting, the committee
recommends endovascular repair.
CONSENSUS OF OPINION ON SELECT ISSUES
Endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injuries
poses several unresolved or controversial issues whose supporting evidence lacks sufficient clarity in the literature due
to cohort heterogeneity, size, and length of follow-up.
Nevertheless, the committee sought to arrive at some consensus on a select number of these issues to offer guidance
in actual clinical practice. To this end, a series of questions
were used to survey the opinions of each committee member. Published evidence is provided in support of the majority and minority opinions when available. Using the
GRADE system, all of the following opinions should be
regarded as Grade 2, Level C statements (Table II).
Issue 1: Timing of TEVAR in a stable patient. The
committee suggests urgent (⬍24 hours) repair barring
other serious concomitant nonaortic injuries, or repair immediately after other injuries have been treated, but at the
latest prior to hospital discharge.10,11 This is consistent
with the available evidence in which mortality was 46% in
those managed nonoperatively.9 While most did not favor
discharge without repair, depending on the severity of the
injury (see below), minority opinion was expressed that
expectant management was appropriate with follow-up imaging.
Issue 2: Management of “minimal aortic injury”
(periadventitial defect or hematoma). Intimal or periadventitial defects or hem