
and Best Practice Statement, can be found in the
Supplementary material for this article. These systematic
reviews provide the evidence for the graded recommendations made in this guideline.

TARGET POPULATION AND TARGET AUDIENCE
Poorly healing foot ulcers or gangrene in people with diabetes mellitus are frequently caused by several factors
acting in concert. The primary target population of this
guideline is people with diabetes mellitus with a foot ulcer
or gangrene on any portion of the foot (with or without neuropathy) in whom the presence of PAD could have contributed to the development of the ulcer and or its poor healing
potential. The secondary target group is people with diabetes mellitus in whom the presence of PAD was considered or needed to be excluded. People with pure venous
ulcers, ulcers above the ankle, acute limb ischaemia,

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1107

Volume 78, Number 5

embolic disease, and non-atherosclerotic chronic vascular
conditions of the lower extremity were excluded.
The primary target audience of this guideline is vascular
specialists and all other healthcare professionals who are
involved in the diagnosis, management, and prevention
of diabetes related foot ulcers and gangrene, who work
in primary, secondary, and tertiary care.
Patient representatives will be approached to discuss
which elements of the guideline should be included in
the Information for Patients. This will result in a list of
items that should be addressed in this information. Given
cultural and language differences, the ﬁnal text should
be produced on a national or local level.

GUIDELINE WRITING GROUP CONFLICT OF
INTEREST POLICY
The three organisations participating in this guideline
are committed to developing trustworthy clinical practice guidelines through transparency and full disclosure
by those participating in the process of guideline development. To prevent a major Conﬂict of Interest (COI),
members of the Writing Committee were not allowed
to serve as an ofﬁcer, board member, trustee, owner, or
employee of a company directly or indirectly involved
in the topic of this guideline. Before the ﬁrst and last
meeting of the Writing Committee, members were
asked to report any COI in writing. In addition, at the
beginning of each meeting this question was also asked
and if answered yes, the members were asked to submit
an