 cell or
gene based) to improve foot perfusion in persons with
DFU and PAD who are not candidates for standard
revascularisation.
Angiogenesis (formation of new blood vessels from
existing ones) is important for the development of arterial collateral formation in response to arterial occlusion
and also for wound healing. Diabetes and hyperglycaemia are associated with impaired angiogenesis. A number of cell, gene, and protein based therapeutic
approaches have, and are, being trialled for both no option CLTI and wound healing in diabetes. There are
currently no therapies that have proven beneﬁcial and
trials are ongoing.149

CONTRIBUTION OF AUTHORS
The Writing Committee was chaired by R.F. (on behalf
of the IWGDF), with R.H. (on behalf of the ESVS) and
J.L.M (on behalf of the SVS) as co-chairs and supported
by N.S. (on behalf of the IWGDF). V.C. acted as scientiﬁc
secretary. The three organisations involved were each
tasked to select six well recognised experts to create an
international, multidisciplinary, writing committee of 18
members in total. Care was taken to have a global, multidisciplinary group that included disciplines such as
vascular surgery, angiology, interventional radiology,
vascular medicine, endocrinology, epidemiology, and
podiatry.
All members of the Writing Committee were involved
in summarising the available evidence in the supporting
systematic reviews, that are published separately, and in
writing this guideline. Several members (the chairs, scientiﬁc secretary, N.S, and M.S.C.) were assigned to write
individual sections of the guideline, and all authors
reviewed and discussed the evidence obtained, the evidence to decision items according to GRADE, and each
recommendation during group meetings. All authors
reviewed and agreed with the ﬁnal document before societal review and subsequent submission for endorsement. All members of the working group undertook
Level 1 GRADE training, and the several working group
members undertook Guideline Methodology training
(McMaster University).

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We would like to thank the following external experts
for their review of our PICOs for clinical relevance and
the guideline document: Sriram Narayanan (Singapore),
Rica Tanaka