 that
intracerebral embolization has occurred.
Perioperative stroke recognized in the postoperative
period. If a patient awakens neurologically intact after
CEA under general anesthesia, or is initially neurologically intact during and after CEA under local anesthesia, and subsequently develops a new neurologic
deﬁcit in the postoperative period, the differential
diagnosis may be more complex. The likely etiology
and treatment may depend on the timing of the
deﬁcit. Neurologic deﬁcits that occur within the ﬁrst
few hours after completion of CEA after an initially
normal period are typically related to thromboembolization and technical defects at the endarterectomy

64S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

site. If the operation was performed under locoregional
anesthesia with the patient being tolerant of carotid
clamping, it is almost certain that an early deﬁcit is
related to embolization, and not complete thrombosis
of the artery. Although duplex scanning can be considered if it can be performed expeditiously, these patients will likely beneﬁt from immediate return to the
operating room for reexploration and assessment of
the ICA and endarterectomy site, as described elsewhere in this article. Alternatively, a neurologic deﬁcit
that occurs later in the postoperative course (1-3 days)
is more likely to be related to ICH or another cause of
stroke. A CT scan of the brain should be performed in
these patients to rule out ICH, particularly in patients
at increased risk.
As reported in an analysis of 2024 CEAs from a single
institution, the causes of 38 (1.9%) perioperative neurologic deﬁcits were clamping ischemia (13.2%), thromboembolic events (63.2%), ICH (13.2%), and miscellaneous
etiologies not directly related to the operated artery
(10.5%).358 Neurologic events that occurred in the initial
24 hours after surgery were signiﬁcantly more likely to
be caused by thromboembolic events, most commonly
related to technical imperfections at the endarterectomy
site. Most patients who experienced early events postoper