/us/app/
svs-ipg/id1014644425). Moreover, it can be used by a wide
range of practitioners making its application in clinical
practice feasible, its costs are relatively limited, and it is
expected to be acceptable to practitioners as well as being of value to people receiving the care. It is likely to
stimulate a standardised access to a form of vascular
assessment, which is also relevant for low income countries where invasive testing may not be widely available.
Due to the observational and often retrospective nature
of most of the current evidence, this recommendation
was made Conditional.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1115

Volume 78, Number 5

TREATMENT
Clinical question
In which persons with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer or
gangrene using clinical ﬁndings, perfusion test ﬁndings,
and or classiﬁcation systems, should revascularisation
be considered?

Table 1. Wound Ischaemia foot Infection Classiﬁcation
System: Wound clinical category adapted from Mills et al.
(reference 84)
Grade

Clinical description

0

Ischaemic rest pain; without ulcer
or gangrene

1

Minor tissue loss: small shallow
ulceration on foot or distal leg. No
gangrene.
Salvageable with simple skin
coverage or # 2 toe amputations

2

Major tissue loss: deeper ulceration(s)
with exposed bone, joint or tendon
not involving calcaneus.
Gangrenous changes limited to
digits.
Salvageable with extensive forefoot
surgery

3

Extensive ulcer or gangrene involving
forefoot or midfoot; full thickness
heel ulcer 6 calcaneal
involvement.
Salvageable with complex foot
reconstruction and/or complex
wound management

intervention in people with diabetes and a foot ulcer.20
Modalities that can be used to obtain anatomical information include CDUS, CTA, MRA, or DSA (including
anteroposterior and lateral views of the foot). The
Writing Committee considered that each of the imaging techniques have their advantages and disadvantages, and their use will depend heavily on the
availability of equipment and local expertise, preferences of the individual clinician, and associated costs.
For these reasons a