 81%; SMA, 19%). They reported that
73% of the patients had sustained relief of their symptoms and that the favorable results were not related to
the location of the lesion (ie, CA vs SMA).
Because the natural history of patients with asymptomatic MAOD remains poorly deﬁned, it is no surprise that
the indications for prophylactic revascularization remain
unresolved. Justiﬁcation for revascularization in this
setting is provided by the fact that a signiﬁcant percentage of patients with MAOD present with symptoms of
AMI from thrombosis of a preexisting lesion rather than
the more typical, protracted symptoms associated
CMI.101,102 Furthermore, patients with MAOD can develop
CMI. Thomas et al17 attempted to retrospectively deﬁne
the natural history of asymptomatic MAOD among a
cohort of 980 consecutive patients undergoing mesenteric arteriography. They reported that signiﬁcant
MAOD (>50% stenosis) was present in 8.3% of the patients (n ¼ 82) with 1.5% of the patients (n ¼ 15) demonstrating stenosis of all three mesenteric vessels. There
were four deaths owing to mesenteric ischemia during
the follow-up period that ranged from 1 to 6 years,with
all of the deaths occurring in patients with signiﬁcant
involvement of all three mesenteric vessels. More impressively, 86% of the patients with involvement of all three
mesenteric vessels developed symptoms consistent
with mesenteric ischemia.
Revascularization may be justiﬁed in a small subset of
asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD involving all
three mesenteric vessels. These patients should be monitored closely and counseled regarding the presence of
symptoms and the importance of seeking medical
care. Accordingly, revascularization may be justiﬁed for
noncompliant patients or those with limited access to
medical care. Revascularization is also likely indicated
in the presence of vague or nonspeciﬁc abdominal pain
given the potential adverse sequelae, including progression to AMI.
The perioperative perturbations associated with any
major surgical procedure, particularly open and endovascular aortic aneur