 years.166,175-178 The disease pattern most
amenable to endarterectomy (ie, localized lesions in the
terminal aorta and common iliacs) is readily treated by

20S Conte and Pomposelli et al

endovascular means; hence, this operation has become
extremely uncommon in current practice.
Transperitoneal or retroperitoneal approaches may be
used without signiﬁcant differences in outcomes. Unilateral
operations are readily performed via retroperitoneal approaches. In addition to considerations regarding the nature
of the proximal anastomosis discussed above, a critical point is
treatment of the CFAs and DFAs at the distal anastomosis.
Ensuring an adequate caliber profunda outﬂow is essential
and mandates careful preoperative and intraoperative evaluation. In circumstances of truly isolated AIOD and no or minimal disease in the common femoral/bifurcation, the
anastomosis may be performed to the mid-CFA level. In all
other circumstances, the arteriotomy in the CFA should allow
direct interrogation of the DFA and SFA oriﬁces, with use of
adjunctive endarterectomy and patch angioplasty as needed
based on burden and location of disease. Failure to address
this critical point may signiﬁcantly limit the durability of the
bypass graft, because the presence or progression of outﬂow
disease, or both, is the most common reason for midterm and
late-term graft occlusions. Very rarely, disease spares the
external iliac arteries and the femoral arteries, and in these circumstances, an aortoiliac bypass may be performed to the
distal external iliac arteries via a transabdominal approach.179
One must be cautious to ensure the absence of any signiﬁcant
femoral disease by imaging studies in such cases.
Prosthetic grafts (Dacron, expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene [ePTFE]) are typically used for AFB and IFB
and have excellent durability. Small graft sizes (eg, 12 
6 mm) have been associated with decreased patency and
should be avoided.180 In the special circumstance of
infected or contaminated ﬁelds, or removal of a previous
infected graft,