 with collaterals
was associated with wound healing and limb salvage
outcomes which were similar to direct revascularisation
outcomes and notably better than the indirect revascularisation without collateral cohorts.117e121
The majority of studies included in the systematic review used endovascular procedures with data probably
favouring direct revascularisation. For bypass procedures
there was little difference in healing and amputation
outcomes at 12 months between direct and indirect
revascularisation.121e124 These studies had a high risk of
bias, lacked randomisation (and it is unlikely that this
will ever be possible), and were mostly retrospective.
Baseline variables such as wound and foot staging (e.g.,
by WIfI) and extent of tissue loss were reported infrequently. Heterogeneity of the included studies was
found to be high, preventing meta-analysis of data. This
is likely to be due to high variability in participants and
wound stage (extent of tissue loss, severity of ischaemia,
presence of infection). Comparison of primary outcomes
(healing and amputation) or adverse events is therefore
problematic. Based on the available data it appears

Figure 2. Approach to vascular intervention for a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene. Yellow ¼
Conditional Recommendation; gray ¼ Best Practice Recommendation; PAD ¼ peripheral artery disease; CT ¼
computed tomography; GSV ¼ great saphenous vein; MR ¼ magnetic resonance; DS ¼ digital subtraction.

1122

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

Figure 3. Angiosome distribution in the lower leg and foot.

direct revascularisation may have improved outcomes
and therefore it was considered that this procedure is
likely to be preferred by people receiving treatment to
improve healing and prevent amputation. However, the
Writing Committee considered there is likely to be
important variability in patient values due to the lack of
clear beneﬁt of one approach over the other.
Factors such as the severity of ischaemia and tissue loss
(e.g., WIfI staging) and patient suitability for the procedure and presence of comorbidities, as well as the availability of expertise and costs of the procedures (which
may vary between locations and countries) drives decision making in relation to the type