 of potential
late complications. However, in surgically fit patients with
poor anatomy for endovascular repair, conventional open
repair should be considered.
Issue 4: Suitability and the unmet needs of current
FDA-approved thoracic endografts. With the availability of three commercially available devices, there was considerable divergence of opinion about the “best” device for
use in traumatic thoracic aortic injury. There was a consensus, however, that arch conformation represented the single greatest unmet need given the curvature of the thoracic
aorta at the location of the injury. Inability to conform to
this curvature can result in malapposition of the endograft,
which can lead to endoleak and endograft collapse.16 The
aortic diameters are relatively smaller in the younger subset
of trauma patients. Currently, available thoracic endograft
sizes mostly reflect the larger aortic diameters that would be
typically encountered in an older cohort with degenerative
aneurysms. Excessive oversizing may result in attachment
site endoleak, device infolding, endograft collapse, and
even death from acute aortic occlusion.16 Endograft collapse represents a failure of the therapy and a marker of
unsuitable anatomy, and open surgical conversion should
be considered. No consensus could be reached regarding
optimal oversizing for these cases, and opinions were
equally divided among minimal to no oversizing, 5% to 10%
oversizing, and standard oversizing per manufacturer’s recommendations. Historically, abdominal endograft compo-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2011

190 Lee et al

Fig. Classifications of traumatic aortic injury.12

nents such as proximal extension cuffs have been used when
thoracic devices were either unavailable or anatomically
unsuitable.17,18 Due to the shorter delivery systems, often
these devices could not reach the site of injury from the
femoral approach, which necessitated either use of a longer
makeshift delivery system or access through a more proximal site. The lengths of extension cuffs are typically short,
and this required multiple overlapping pieces. Such an
intercalating construction allowed slightly improved conformation to the arch but at the same time introduced
multiple junctions, which were potential sources of