 guidelines
on the management of PAAs.3 To support these
guidelines, we conducted a systematic review and
meta-analysis to summarize the best available evidence
comparing the efﬁcacy of OAR with EVAR in the
treatment of PAAs, as well as the natural history of PAAs.

Rochester, MN 55905 (e-mail: murad.mohammad@mayo.edu).
The editors and reviewers of this article have no relevant ﬁnancial relationships to
disclose per the JVS policy that requires reviewers to decline review of any
manuscript for which they may have a conﬂict of interest.
0741-5214
Copyright Ó 2021 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2021.05.023

METHODS
This systematic review follows a protocol established a
priori by a committee from the Society for Vascular
Surgery. This report is consistent with the PRISMA
statement.4
121S

122S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Beuschel et al

January Supplement 2022

Study eligibility data sources and search strategies.
We included studies with 10 patients or more that
reported outcomes of patients with PAAs treated with
open or endovascular approaches. Studies had to be
comparative with longitudinal follow up and evaluate an
outcome of interest (mortality, amputation, need of reintervention, thromboembolic events, patency, length of
hospital stay or surgical complications). Traumatic and iatrogenic aneurysms were excluded. We also included
studies that reported the rate of complications without
treatment (ie, natural history studies). Because some
studies reported results per aneurysms and not per patients and to present evidence on all outcomes, we summarized data from several selected existing systematic
reviews. Supplementary Table I (online only) includes
details of the two clinical questions in the patients, intervention, comparison, outcomes (PICO) format.
A comprehensive search of several databases from database inception to June 15th, 2018 was conducted without
language restrictions. The databases included MEDLINE
Epub Ahead of Print, Medline