 the compression
therapy.30 Another study used the 1470-nm laser. Patients were excluded from this study if they had an
incompetent anterior accessory GSV, incompetent small
saphenous vein, deep venous insufﬁciency, DVT, hypercoagulability, general poor health status, aneurysmal veins
>2 cm in diameter, very tortuous veins, nonpalpable
pedal pulses, and inability to ambulate or were pregnant
or breastfeeding. The short-term occlusion rate was
99%, and the midterm rate was 100%. Induration or
swelling was the most common complication (13%),
with no major complications such as DVT or pulmonary
embolism. The Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS)
decreased signiﬁcantly. In this study, patients wore a

compression bandage for the ﬁrst 24 hours and then
an elastic full-length stocking (20-30 mm Hg) for 4 weeks.
Although there was no comparison group, the study reported that 4 weeks of compression was well tolerated
and was successful after ablation with the 1470-nm
laser.31
The duration of compression stockings has also been
evaluated after surgical ablation of varicose veins (stripping and ligation). One study evaluated 104 patients
with GSV incompetence treated with inversion stripping
after excluding patients unable to wear elastic compression stockings, those already wearing compression stockings, and those with venous leg ulcers. It was not deﬁned
whether patients with deep venous insufﬁciency were
excluded. All patients were treated with compression
bandaging for 3 days, then divided into a group treated
for an additional 4 weeks and a group without additional
treatment. Measured 4 weeks postoperatively, there was
no signiﬁcant difference in limb volume between the
two groups, and in fact patients without stockings actually returned to work faster. The authors suggested that
wearing an elastic compression stocking had no additional beneﬁt after compression bandaging for 3 days
after inversion stripping.26 A contrary ﬁnding was
observed in a study of female patients who were randomized into groups using compression therapy with
low-strength (18-21