 Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

arteries, which due to their smaller size can be difﬁcult to
image. However, advances in imaging and technology
have shown that tibial and pedal arteries are potentially
treatable by endovascular and open surgical techniques.
The term microvascular disease describes abnormalities affecting the arteriolar, capillary and venular vessels. Several studies have reported microvascular
abnormalities in the skin and subcutaneous tissues in
people with diabetes. These abnormalities can be structural, i.e. occlusive disease and alterations in the blood
vessel wall, and functional, such as impaired vasodilatory responses to endogenous or noxious stimuli.82
However, in the systematic review on this topic it was
not possible to identify studies of sufﬁcient quality
showing that such abnormalities contribute to
impaired wound healing (Supplementary material).
One prospective study did report that microvascular
changes observed in skin biopsies in the feet in people
with diabetes and neuro-ischaemia were associated
with poorer wound healing after revascularisation.83
However, both these microvascular changes and poorer
wound healing could be due to tissue damage caused
by ischaemia and not by pre-existing diabetes related
micro-angiopathy. If perfusion of the foot ulcer is
adequate but the ulcer fails to heal, other causes of
poor wound healing should be sought and treated,
such as infection, insufﬁcient protection from biomechanical stress, oedema, poor glycaemic control, poor
nutritional state, and underlying co-morbidities.43
Based on the lack of studies showing that diabetes
related micro-angiopathy contributes to poor wound
healing in DFU and the potential harm if this is
assumed, a Conditional Recommendation based on
low certainty of evidence was made.

Recommendation 10
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene, consider using the Wound/Ischaemia/foot
Infection (WIfI) classiﬁcation system to estimate healing likelihood and amputation risk.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. The Wound, Ischaemia and Foot infection
(WIfI) classiﬁcation system was developed to guide the
clinician