, randomized controlled trials (RCTs), and prospective and retrospective observational studies that included
>10 patients with varicose veins were used. Drafts of the
writing groups were discussed on Zoom meetings, and all
recommendations and statements were unanimously
approved by the writing committee. All clinical practice

guidelines in Part II were based on evidence established
with one or several systematic reviews, with or without
meta-analysis, using the GRADE method,44-46 as described
in detail in Part I of the guidelines.8 We used the standard
nomenclature of “we recommend” and “we suggest” to
describe strong and weak recommendations, respectively.
To make these guidelines comprehensive and practical
for clinicians, we developed three other types of
ungraded statements, in addition to formal graded recommendations. Good Practice Statements are recommendations that are supported by indirect evidence
that cannot be easily synthesized, yet the topic is usually
noncontroversial and agreed upon by most stakeholders.8 Implementation Remarks contain technical information that supports the implementation of speciﬁc
recommendations.47 Ungraded Consensus Statements
refer to evaluation or treatment as a unanimous
consensus of the expert panel, based on their own
comprehensive review of the literature, even though
some of the topics had minimal or low-quality evidence.

RECOMMENDATIONS AND STATEMENTS
1. Evaluation of patients with varicose veins
1.1. Classiﬁcation and grading of clinical severity of
chronic venous disorders.
1.1.1. We recommend the use of the 2020 updated
CEAP classiﬁcation system for chronic venous disorders. The clinical or basic CEAP classiﬁcation can be
used for clinical practice, and the full CEAP classiﬁcation system should be used for clinical research.
Good Practice Statement
Rationale and evidence. The CEAP classiﬁcation was
designed at a consensus meeting of international experts
in 1994,48 it was updated in 2004,49 and most recently in
2020.50 The classiﬁcation is based on clinical signs, etiology, anatomy and pathology (reﬂux and obstruction) of
chronic venous disorders. The basic or clinical CEAP classiﬁcation reports the single highest C class, and the
advanced CEAP reports all C classes present