 the collateral circulation in the setting of a known ICA occlusion. As
such, referable neurologic symptoms may arise from
embolization of the proximal aspect of the occluded ICA
or from external carotid artery stenosis via the usual
thromboembolic mechanism.405,406 For many decades,
external CEA has been discussed in the setting of new or
recurrent neurologic or ocular symptoms given the aforementioned pathophysiology.407-413 Other than small series and case reports, there has been no new reporting in
the literature with respect to treatment recommendations.414-416 Treatment consists of ﬂush ligation of the internal carotid and common and external CEA to remove the
embolic source. Despite the lack of conﬁrmatory evidence, use of this technique in the appropriate setting of
symptoms and relevant anatomy seems reasonable.

Summary and recommendations. In the appropriate
clinical setting, external CEA and ﬂush ligation of the
ICA is suggested to minimize further neurologic
sequelae.

COMPLICATIONS OF CAROTID INTERVENTION
Early complications of carotid intervention
1. Stroke after CEA (intraoperative and immediate postoperative stroke): therapy
2. Stroke after CAS
3. Hemodynamic instability: post CEA hypertension and
hypotension
4. Post-CAS hemodynamic depression
5. CNI after CEA
6. Myocardial infarction/renal insufﬁciency
7. Wound hematoma after CEA
Late complications after carotid intervention
1. Prosthetic patch infection
2. Restenosis following CEA
3. Restenosis following CAS
Early complications of CEA
Stroke after CEA. Stroke is one of the most serious
complications following CEA, and its incidence must be
minimized to achieve appropriate CEA efﬁcacy in stroke
prevention, particularly among neurologically asymptomatic patients. More than 20 different mechanisms
of perioperative stroke have been identiﬁed.417 The
most common mechanism of stroke is perioperative
arterial thrombosis and embolization, frequently related
to a technical deﬁcit at the endarterectomy site.417,418
Examples of technical deﬁcits