, and intravascular ultrasound-directed venous stenting, are also
routinely performed in many hospitals. Whereas other
societies have created criteria for credentialing for
some of these procedures, consensus statements are
lacking for most. There may be a role for further intersocietal criteria in the future.
3. Training requirements should be determined by
frequency and complexity of the new procedures,
industry requirements, and standards set by societies
and by individual hospitals already performing these
procedures. There should be an initial period of monitoring and evaluation of the provider’s performance of
the new procedure.
4. Individual hospitals should establish guidelines determined by all accredited interventionalists practicing
these newer procedures. These guidelines should
include ongoing evaluation of outcomes for these
new vascular surgical and endovascular procedures
(see later section, Renewal of Privileges).
The SVS continues to support past recommendations
by multidisciplinary writing groups, which included SVS
participation, regarding TEVAR and CAS.4,5 The same
numbers mentioned for vascular residents entering practice apply to credentialed surgeons already in practice
(see earlier section, Training Requirements for Vascular
Surgery Trainees). For credentialed vascular surgeons in
practice, a minimum of 10 hours of CME activity should
be devoted to TEVAR every 2 years. For those performing
CAS, 20 hours of CME activity speciﬁc to percutaneous
therapeutic endovascular intervention and cerebrovascular disease should be required, 10 of which should be
relevant to cervical or extracranial carotid angioplasty
and stenting every 3 years.8 Successful completion of
an industry-sponsored course by credentialed surgeons
in practice may also be desirable to ensure familiarity
with the nuances of various new devices; however, this
should not be equated with having achieved competency in the overall procedure. As suggested earlier, proctoring for certain procedures may be considered.

REQUIREMENTS FOR HOSPITAL PRIVILEGES IN
VASCULAR SURGERY AND ENDOVASCULAR
INTERVENTIONS AND NONINVASIVE VASCULAR
LABORATORY INTERPRETATION
New applicants. Regarding initial open vascular surgical privileges, hospital credentialing committees must
recognize the high level of training and expertise previously outlined and offer new privileges only to boardeligible or board-certiﬁ