. When the endarterectomy site is patent, other modalities of CT scanning and angiography should be used
to better identify as a cause of stroke. If CT scanning
excludes intracranial hemorrhage, anticoagulation is
reasonable until deﬁnitive decision regarding the
appropriate diagnosis and therapy can be made.

7. Revascularization should not be considered in patients with any stenosis who suffered a disabling
stroke, modiﬁed Rankin score of greater than 3 whose
area of infarction exceeds 30% of the ipsilateral MCA
territory or who have altered consciousness to minimize the risk of postoperative parenchymal
hemorrhage.
8. It is recommended that patients undergoing early carotid interventions after thrombolysis should have
postinterventional hypertension actively treated to
reduce the risk of parenchymal hemorrhage.

CAROTID ARTERY STENTING
Access: Femoral, radial, cervical (TCAR)
Appropriate patient selection for CAS was discussed in
prior sections of these guidelines. In summary, there is
strong evidence that aortic arch tortuosity (type III arch)
and severe atherosclerosis are associated with a signiﬁcant
increase in risk of stroke during CAS.175,359 Moreover, longer
and more extensive carotid lesions are associated with dramatic increase in adverse outcomes.175 Patients over age 80
tend to have more tortuous anatomy and more advanced
lesions. Prior studies showed better outcomes for these patients with CEA vs transfemoral CAS.197,199,360,361 There is also
strong evidence that dual antiplatelet therapy, statins, beta
blockers, and tight diabetes control can reduce risk of
stroke and death during CAS.62,164,362,363
CAS has the advantage of percutaneous access and
should be performed under local anesthesia with
conscious sedation because local anesthesia reduces
risk of cardiac complications and allows for continuous
neurologic monitoring.238,364,365
Transfemoral access. CAS is commonly performed via
a retrograde transfemoral approach using 5F to 9F access sheath in a right-handed operator. This approach
is advantageous in that the femoral