ations to these contexts, clinicians should consider these as suggestions (GRADE 2). Similarly, newer
medical therapies (statins, more potent antiplatelet agents,
and improved management for diabetes and hypertension)
might favorably alter the outcome of medical management
sufficiently to diminish the strength of this recommendation. Newer therapies were included in ACST and their use
in that study did not result in a diminution of the benefit of
endarterectomy from that seen in ACAS.

Evidence

Values statement

The efficacy of carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic
patients was evaluated in a systematic review and meta-analysis
that pooled results from three RCTs.2 These trials included
5223 patients with asymptomatic moderate to severe carotid
stenosis. The degree of stenosis was ⱖ50% in the Veteran
Affairs Cooperative Study24 and ⱖ60% in the Asymptomatic
Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS) and the Asymptomatic
Carotid Surgery Trial (ACST).25,26 All three trials had high
methodological quality including allocation concealment,
blinded outcome assessment and applied intention-to-treat
analysis. The incidence of 30-day perioperative stroke or death
was 2.8%. Patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy
fared better than those treated medically. The relative risk of
perioperative stroke, death or any subsequent stroke was 0.69
(0.57 to 0.83) and the relative risk of perioperative stroke,
death, or subsequent ipsilateral stroke was 0.71 (0.55 to
0.90), both favoring endarterectomy. There was no important
inconsistency in results across trials (I2 ⫽ 0). For the outcome
of any stroke or death, there was a nonsignificant trend towards fewer events in the surgical group (RR 0.92, 95% CI
0.83 to 1.02).
The exclusion criteria for ACAS and ACST were similar
to those for NASCET, and participating surgeons in both
studies were preselected for good surgical results. The
application of our recommendation to excluded groups,

The committee placed a relatively higher value on
preventing the outcome of stroke with the associated