
flow.46 Although adequate arterial inflow can usually be
determined by a clinical examination, arterial abnormalities
such as the high brachial bifurcation are relatively common,
easily identified by ultrasound examination, and may substantially affect preoperative planning; this is especially relevant when considering a forearm prosthetic access site. An
inadequate arterial lumen may also adversely affect outcome and is easily determined by combining the arterial
ultrasound examination with the venous survey.
Arterial procedural evaluations specific to vascular
access. Noninvasive evaluation. A normal clinical arterial
examination without a history suggesting inflow occlusive
disease may not require a further presurgical evaluation of
the arterial inflow. However, if arterial inflow is not clearly
normal, duplex ultrasound (DU) imaging, performed simultaneously with vein mapping, will aid in identifying
stenotic segments and determine arterial diameter in addition to calculation of arterial flow.54,55 The minimal arterial
lumen diameter is important. Studies have shown both 1.5
mm and 2.0 mm to be the minimally acceptable internal
arterial diameters for successful autogenous AV access,
although 2.0 mm seems to be the more commonly accepted limit in adults.56,57
A significant number of patients are poor candidates for
a radiocephalic (wrist) AV access from either an arterial or

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

venous standpoint. Goldstein et al58 reported that ultrasound examination found 50% of patients studied had
inadequate arterial inflow to support a radiocephalic autogenous AV access at the wrist. Segmental Doppler pressures
may be helpful; however, vessel calcification in diabetic
patients may preclude accurate measurement of these pressures. Digital pressures, transcutaneous oximetry, and resistance index measurements have also been suggested as
measures of inflow adequacy and may be helpful in selected
cases. Calculating the resistance index or simple ultrasound
observation of changes in the arterial waveform during a
clinched fist maneuver (reactive hyperemia) predicts the
vessel’s ability to accommodate the anticipated marked
increase in flow required for a successful AV access.54,59
Arteriography. Arteriography may be useful in patients
with significant peripheral vascular disease, particularly in