 if beneﬁts and risks were less certain,
because of low-quality evidence or because high-quality
evidence suggests that beneﬁts and risks are closely
balanced, a weak recommendation was recorded.
Guideline developers used the term we recommend to
denote strong recommendations, whereas for weak
recommendations, they used the less deﬁnitive wording

we suggest. Thus, quality of evidence was rated high
when additional research is considered very unlikely to
change conﬁdence in the estimate of effect, moderate
when further research is likely to have an important
impact on the estimate of effect, or low when further
research is very likely to change the estimate of the
effect. On occasions, the guideline committee made
good practice statements, which are ungraded recommendations advising about performing certain actions
considered by surgeons to be essential for patient care
and supported only by indirect evidence.
Literature search and evidence summary. Three
systematic reviews were conducted to support this
guideline. Two focused on evaluating the best modalities and optimal frequency for surveillance after EVAR.
A third umbrella systematic review (overview of reviews)
was focused on identifying the best available evidence
on the diagnosis and management of AAA. The date
range of this search was from 1996 to September 19,
2016, and included Ovid MEDLINE In-Process & Other
Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid Embase,
Ovid Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Ovid
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Scopus.
The search strategy was designed and conducted by an
experienced librarian with input from the guideline
methodologist. Controlled vocabulary supplemented
with keywords was used to search for meta-analyses and
randomized controlled trials of diagnosis and therapy
for AAA. The actual strategy is available in the Appendix
(online only). This search yielded 1206 references,
from which 29 evidence synthesis reports (systematic
reviews and meta-analyses) were used to grade the
quality of evidence (Table I) in various topics that relate
to AAA, such as screening, diagnosis, surveillance, and
treatment.

GENERAL APPROACH TO THE PATIENT
History and risk factors for AAA
The risk of an AAA as well as of aneurysm enlargement
and rupture for each patient and related family members can largely be determined by