 not reached ezetimibe can
be added, which is available in combination tablets with
both statins. These treatments have limited side effects
in most (but not all) people and are relatively inexpensive. According to the recent ESC-EASD and ESC-EAS
guidelines, an LDL level below 1.0 mmol/L (40 mg/dL)
can be the target in people with recurrent cardiovascular
events (within two years), based on a limited number of
RCTs in which relatively few participants with CLTI and
diabetes were included. To reach the aforementioned
very low LDL levels, additional treatment with a PCSK9
inhibitor will be necessary in a proportion of people.
PCSK9 inhibitors are monoclonal antibodies that have
limited side effects but have the drawback of high costs,
parenteral administration, and at present there is very
limited evidence of the cost effectiveness of PCSK9 inhibitors in people with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer or
gangrene. In addition, the use of these expensive drugs is
a problem for many countries in the world, and for these
reasons a recommendation on LDL level below 1.0 mmol/
L (40 mg/dL) for this speciﬁc population was not
included, but it is acknowledged that in several countries
PCSK9 inhibitors are used to reach these goals in those
with recurrent cardiovascular events.
In line with the other cardiovascular risk reduction interventions in these usually frail, multimorbid individuals,
treatment and its goals should be based on shared decision making and should be individualised after careful
weighting of the beneﬁts, harms, and costs. The LDL
(and other) treatment targets in the recommendation
should not be interpreted as absolute goals but more
as desired goals. Even if the goal is only partially met, it

can result in a marked reduction in cardiovascular events
in these very high risk people. Although very low LDL
levels are perhaps not achievable in all, LDL reductions
of up to 50% can be achieved in many with the aforementioned potent statins (and ezetimibe), with marked
reduction in cardiovascular risk.16
Additional therapies
Antithrombotic therapy. The subsequent advice on
antiplatelet therapy is in line with the recent ESVS antithrombotic guidelines.137 All guidelines strongly recommend treatment with a single antiplate