 were no symptomatic
periprocedural PE among those with (20%) or without
IVC filters.69 Although there may have been a selection
bias among those undergoing prophylactic filter placement, these results were achieved despite thrombus extending into the IVC in 30% of patients. Other small
series85 have similarly reported asymptomatic emboli
captured by IVC filters in similar proportions of patients
undergoing catheter-directed or pharmacomechanical
thrombolysis and among those with and without involvement of the IVC. However, it is also clear that
symptomatic PE may occasionally complicate these procedures.87 Given that there are little reliable data regarding the risk of PE with the newer pharmacomechanical
modalities and that filter placement is generally associated with little morbidity (but additional cost), it seems
prudent to consider this an unresolved question and to at
least consider the relative balance of benefit vs risk in
potentially high-risk situations (Grade 2C).

4. Periprocedural inferior vena cava filters

5.1. We recommend the use of self-expanding metallic stents for treatment of chronic iliocaval compressive or obstructive lesions that are uncovered by any of
the thrombus removal strategies (Grade 1C). and
5.2. We suggest that stents not be used in the
femoral and popliteal veins (Grade 2C). Acute DVT is
usually regarded as a multicausal disease, arising from the
interaction of multiple genetic, environmental, and behavior risk factors.88,89 The importance of underlying anatomic factors, such as nonthrombotic iliac vein lesions,90
was not appreciated when conventional anticoagulation
was the only therapeutic option. However, with the development of image-guided techniques for early thrombus
removal, including surgical thrombectomy and thrombolytic strategies, it has become clear that compressive or
obstructive iliac vein lesions contribute to many cases of
iliofemoral DVT. A pooled analysis of 19 published studies,
including 1046 patients treated with catheter-directed or
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis, reported the use of
stents in 46% of patients.27 Although the total number of
limbs with stenoses or