 >20 mm Hg together with eccentric pads placed directly over the vein
ablated or operated on provide the greatest reduction in postoperative pain. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 2.1: Duration of compression therapy after thermal ablation or stripping of the saphenous veins.
In the absence of convincing evidence, we recommend best clinical judgment to determine the duration of
compression therapy after treatment. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 3.1: Compression therapy after sclerotherapy.
We suggest compression therapy immediately after treatment of superﬁcial veins with sclerotherapy to improve
outcomes of sclerotherapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.2: Duration of compression therapy after sclerotherapy.
In the absence of convincing evidence, we recommend best clinical judgment to determine the duration of
compression therapy after sclerotherapy. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 4.1: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment in patients with a venous leg ulcer.
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer, we recommend compression therapy over no compression therapy to increase
venous leg ulcer healing rate and to decrease the risk of ulcer recurrence. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.2: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment in patients with a mixed arterial and venous leg ulcer.
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer and underlying arterial disease, we suggest limiting the use of compression to
patients with ankle-brachial index exceeding 0.5 or if absolute ankle pressure is >60 mm Hg. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C] (J Vasc Surg: Venous and Lym Dis 2019;7:17-28.)

From the Jobst Vascular Institute of Promedica, Toledoa; the University of

Author conﬂict of interest: none.

Michigan, Ann Arborb; the University of Maryland School of Medicine and

Correspondence: Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD, ProMedica, Jobst Vascular Institute,

Baltimore VA Medical Center, Baltimorec; the Vascular Centre, Nuova Villa

2109 Hughes Dr, Ste 400, Toledo, OH 43606 (e-mail: fed