 or overall (cumulative) graft survival in five of the six studies.76,95,100-102

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

16S Sidawy et al

Only one of the six studies (using DU scanning) demonstrated a reduction in graft thrombosis and an improvement in access longevity.103
The randomized studies of access surveillance have
been fairly small in size (64 to 189 patients), so they may
not have been sufficiently powered to demonstrate a small
benefit of access surveillance. Taken together, however,
they suggest that the benefit of preemptive angioplasty is
modest at best. Thus, the available surveillance methods are
quite useful in detecting significant stenosis and permitting
preemptive angioplasty before the graft thrombosis. The benefit is quite short-lived, however, and the injury from the
angioplasty appears to accelerate the process of restenosis.
This topic continues to generate significant debate.104,105
6. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Conversion
of a prosthetic AV access to a secondary
autogenous AV access.
We suggest that a plan and protocol for eventual
conversion of forearm prosthetic access to a secondary
autogenous AV access should be put in place at the
presence of any sign of failing forearm prosthetic AV
access, or after the first failure (GRADE 2, very lowquality evidence).
We suggest two strategies for transitioning suitable
prosthetic AV access to secondary autogenous access
before abandoning a functional prosthetic access:
A. Conversion of the prosthetic access mature outflow
vein to an autogenous access.
B. Identifying a new, remote site for autogenous access construction in a patient where the prosthetic
access outflow vein is not deemed suitable.
6.1. Evidence
The committee found no high-quality evidence to support a strategy of converting prosthetic accesses with impending failure to secondary autogenous accesses, and
these recommendations are based on very low-quality evidence that consists of unsystematic observations and the
consensus of experts.
6.2. Values and preferences
In recommending a proactive approach that involves
conversion of a failing or failed prosthetic access to a
secondary autogenous access before the prosthetic access
fails, the committee placed highest value on maintaining
functional permanent