 are essential to
establish to provide multidisciplinary care.128 Any revascularisation procedure should therefore be part of a
comprehensive care plan that addresses other important
issues including: prompt treatment of concurrent infection, regular wound debridement, biomechanical offloading, control of blood glucose, cardiovascular risk
reduction, and treatment of co-morbidities.128 Moreover,
once the ulcer has healed the risk of recurrence is up to
50% over ﬁve years in several studies so preventive measures need to be taken and many people need long term
follow up by a dedicated foot complication prevention
team.26
Clinical question
In a person with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer, which
medical treatments should be advised to prevent major

adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), major adverse
limb events (MALE), and death?
MACE is deﬁned as a composite of non-fatal stroke,
non-fatal myocardial infarction, and cardiovascular
death.
d MALE is deﬁned as the development of severe lower
leg ischaemia leading to a vascular intervention or a
major lower leg amputation.
d These deﬁnitions vary slightly between studies.
d

People with diabetes and PAD (with or without a foot
ulcer) are at a very high cardiovascular risk. Cardiovascular risk factor goals should always be individualised, taking life expectancy, expected beneﬁt, treatment
burden, potential drug interactions, and undesirable
treatment effects into account. While taking these considerations into account, the Writing Committee suggests the following treatment targets to reduce the
risk of future major adverse limb and cardiovascular
events.

Recommendation 23
In a person with diabetes and peripheral artery disease, the
following target levels should be:

HbA1c < 8% (< 64 mmol/mol), but higher target HbA1c
value may be necessary depending on the risk of severe
hypoglycaemia.
Blood pressure < 140/90 mmHg but higher target levels
may be necessary depending on the risk of orthostatic
hypotension and other side effects.
Low density lipoprotein target of < 1.8 mmol/L (< 70 mg/
dL) and reduced by at least 50% of baseline. If high intensity statin therapy (with or without ezet