.1. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the GSV
or SSV, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing venous
trunk and staged or UGFS of the varicosities only if
anatomic or medical reasons are present. We suggest
shared decision-making with the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
5.2.2. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the
AAGSV or PAGSV, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing
venous trunk and staged phlebectomy or UGFS of the
varicosities only if anatomic or medical reasons are
present. We suggest shared decision-making with the
patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)

Rationale. A single procedure that includes both ablation of the truncal reﬂux and treatment of varicose tributaries can provide immediate satisfaction to patients
who come for treatment of symptomatic varicose veins.
Medical or anatomic reasons should be present to stage
the procedures, because it is not rare that patients with
bilateral varicosities will be scheduled for several subsequent procedures to treat truncal reﬂux and varicosities
separately. The medical reasons for staging the procedure include extensive bilateral varicosities and/or the
need for general anesthesia or a large amount of local
or tumescent anesthetic. The anatomic reasons can
include patients with circumferential limb varicosities
requiring changing the patient’s position from supine
to decubitus. In addition, in some patients with both
truncal incompetence and tributary incompetence, ablation of the truncal vein will reduce the size of the tributary vein or reduce the symptoms of heaviness and
aching to an extent that no further treatment will be
needed. Some patients with truncal and tributary reﬂux
might only want the discomfort from their varicose veins
relieved, without a desire to eliminate the visible tributaries. Thus, ablating the truncal vein might relieve
enough discomfort that a second procedure will never
be necessary. During the shared decision-making process, patients might request a staged approach with
minimally invasive treatment of the tributaries