 values, which
predict the stroke risk of a particular plaque. Plaque characterization is not routine in every vascular laboratory and
requires specific protocols to assure standardization of results.
B. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography
MRA has the advantage of being noninvasive, does not
require iodinated contrast or ionizing radiation, and provides an unlimited number of projections of the carotid
lumen from a single acquisition. MRA can also assess
intrathoracic and intracranial lesions that are not amenable
to DUS interrogation. MRA does not visualize the surrounding soft tissue structures, unless additional MRI is
performed, and calcium within the plaque is not defined. It

Ricotta et al e7

cannot be used in patients with implanted ferromagnetic
devices, such as implantable defibrillators and pacemakers,
and is of limited use in uncooperative patients and those
with claustrophobia. The gadolinium-based compounds
used as a contrast agent for MRA have been associated with
nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in patients with pre-existing
renal disorders.76
MRA has a tendency to overestimate the degree of
carotid stenosis. The sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing 70% to 99% stenosis with time-of-flight MRA are
identical to DUS imaging (88% and 84%, respectively);
however, MRA has a tendency to “over-read” stenosis,
making it difficult to differentiate more moderate (50% to
69%) from severe stenosis. Similarly, high-grade stenosis
will result in a loss of signal on MRA. This does not
represent a carotid occlusion when the more distal cervical
carotid is visualized. However, when there is no reconstitution of the cervical carotid artery on MRA, the diagnosis
of carotid occlusion can be made with a high degree of
certainty.76,77
MRI can be used to analyze plaque morphology, specifically the structure of the atherosclerotic plaque. It can
identify the lipid-rich necrotic core and the fibrous capsule
with high sensitivity and specificity78 and can distinguish
between an intact thick, thin, or ruptured fibrous cap.79
When dedicated protocols are used, MR