ous vein using the ambulatory
conservative hemodynamic treatment of varicose veins (CHIVA)
technique only selectively in patients with varicose veins, when
performed by trained venous interventionists.
We suggest preservation of the saphenous vein using the ambulatory
selective varicose vein ablation under local anesthesia (ASVAL)
procedure only selectively in patients with varicose veins.
We recommend ambulatory phlebectomy for treatment of varicose
veins, performed with saphenous vein ablation, either during the
same procedure or at a later stage. If general anesthesia is required
for phlebectomy, we suggest concomitant saphenous ablation.
We suggest transilluminated powered phlebectomy using lower
oscillation speeds and extended tumescence as an alternative to
traditional phlebectomy for extensive varicose veins.
For treatment of recurrent varicose veins, we suggest ligation of the
saphenous stump, ambulatory phlebectomy, sclerotherapy, or
endovenous thermal ablation, depending on the etiology, source,
location, and extent of varicosity.
11. Endovenous thermal ablation
Endovenous thermal ablations (laser and radiofrequency ablations)
are safe and effective, and we recommend them for treatment of
saphenous incompetence.
Because of reduced convalescence and less pain and morbidity, we
recommend endovenous thermal ablation of the incompetent
saphenous vein over open surgery.
12. Sclerotherapy of varicose veins
We recommend liquid or foam sclerotherapy for telangiectasia,
reticular veins, and varicose veins.
For treatment of the incompetent saphenous vein, we recommend
endovenous thermal ablation over chemical ablation with foam.
13. Treatment of perforating veins
We recommend against selective treatment of incompetent
perforating veins in patients with simple varicose veins (CEAP class
C2).
We suggest treatment of “pathologic” perforating veins that includes
those with an outward flow duration of ⱖ500 ms, with a diameter
of ⱖ3.5 mm, located beneath a healed or open venous ulcer
(CEAP class C5-C6).
For treatment of “pathologic” perforating veins, we