ologic thrombolysis.
Among the 473 patients included in the National Venous
Registry,16 in whom IVC filters were not routinely used,
PE occurred in only 1% of patients. Notably, 71% of procedures involved thrombus extension to at least the iliofemoral
segments, and 15% had extension to the IVC. The mean
incidence of PE was 0.9% in a pooled analysis of 19 published
studies of catheter-directed or pharmacomechanical thrombolysis.27 This risk is similar to that observed in patients
treated with conventional anticoagulation and does not warrant routine placement of an IVC filter.
4.2. We suggest that the relative risks vs benefits of
periprocedural retrievable inferior vena cava placement
be considered in patients undergoing pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and in those with thrombus
extending into the inferior vena cava or who have
markedly limited cardiopulmonary reserve (Grade 2
C). Although the routine use of IVC filters in patients
undergoing catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis appears to be unwarranted, the selective use of such
devices in high-risk situations remains controversial. Patients with thrombus extending into the IVC and those
undergoing pharmacomechanical thrombolysis71,73 are
often deemed to be at higher risk for PE and to warrant
consideration for retrievable filter placement.69,86 Unfortunately, little reliable data are available to support or
refute this position.
Among 68 patients undergoing a variety of pharmacologic (40%), mechanical (17%), and pharmacom-

5. Adjunctive use of venous stents

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 55, Number 5

intravascular ultrasound imaging to assess residual stenosis
and guide stent placement after early thrombus removal.
Flexible, large-diameter, self-expanding stents, extending
into the inferior vena cava and common femoral vein if
indicated, are preferred for use in the iliac veins. In contrast
to the favorable results with iliac stents, stents placed in the
femoropopliteal venous segment fare poorly,16 and we
suggest that stents not be used