 are clamped ﬁrst, followed
by the proximal aorta. Distal clamping is always at the
level of the iliac arteries because aneurysm disease usually extends to the aortic bifurcation, even in patients
with planned reconstruction using a tube graft. If the
common iliac arteries are aneurysmal, the external iliac
arteries need to be dissected and controlled separately.
The internal iliac arteries may require balloon occlusion
if external clamping is not feasible.

Systemic anticoagulation with 100 units/kg of intravenous heparin is recommended for elective aneurysm
repair, irrespective of the location of the aortic clamp.
Heparin may be omitted or administered in lower doses
in special circumstances of a ruptured aneurysm or other
unusual situations. In these cases, the graft is vigorously
ﬂushed before restoration of blood ﬂow, or limited
amounts of heparinized saline may be instilled directly
into the distal vessels after placement of the proximal
aortic clamp. In patients with history of heparin-induced
thrombocytopenia, a thrombin inhibitor, such as bivalirudin or argatroban, may be used as an alternative.
We recommend a thrombin inhibitor, such as bivalirudin or
argatroban, as an alternative to heparin for patients with a
history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

B (Moderate)

Graft type and conﬁguration. There is no signiﬁcant
difference in patency, durability, resistance to infection,
or risk of degeneration or dilation of currently used prosthetic materials. Differences in methods of fabrication of
polyester grafts include knitted or woven, external or
double velour, and high or low porosity. Polyester grafts
can be rendered impermeable by various biologic coatings, including collagen, gelatin, and albumin. Graft
impregnation with silver or rifampin has been used to
enhance resistance to infection. Routine use of
rifampin-impregnated polyester grafts, in which gelatincoated polyester grafts are soaked in rifampin solution
(1 mg/mL) for 15 to 3