. Therefore, they concluded
that color DUS imaging remained the preferred imaging
modality for identifying patients with 70% to 99% stenosis.86 As such, CDUS is the preferred imaging modality for
the identification of asymptomatic stenosis.
This recommendation was based on several factors,
including low cost, a much higher number of strokes likely
to be prevented in the long-term by the rapid availability of
CDUS imaging in contrast with other imaging, and the
good sensitivity of imaging in detecting significant stenosis.
However, the Health Technology Assessment highlighted
the concern of the accuracy of DUS in diagnosing 50% to
69% stenosis, which carries a sensitivity of only 36% and a
specificity of 91%.86
The utility of CDUS will depend on the clinical presentation of the patient. In neurologically symptomatic patients, a diagnosis by CDUS of stenosis between 50% and
69% is sufficient to proceed with surgery based on its
specificity. However, a negative CDUS result would mandate another imaging study because of the low sensitivity of
CDUS in this setting. In neurologically asymptomatic patients, a moderate stenosis (50% to 69%) diagnosed by
CDUS should be confirmed by another imaging study
before intervention is undertaken.
F. Imaging after carotid intervention
The prevalence of carotid artery restenosis after CEA
varies between 1% and 37%,87-90 although symptomatic
recurrent stenoses is infrequent (0% to 8%).87 Factors associated with restenosis include continued smoking, small
ICA diameter, operative defect detected at intraoperative
assessment, and primary closure after CEA. The aggregate

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

incidence of residual and recurrent carotid stenosis after
CEA in ACAS was 13%.88 Of 136 patients who had restenosis, 8 (5.9%) underwent reoperation, only 1 of whom was
symptomatic. There was no correlation between late stroke
and recurrent stenosis. Similarly, Cao et al89 randomized
1353 patients who underwent CEA. Of these, the ev