itis,
should also be considered at high risk for development
of TAA. The history should also focus on history of previous aortic coarctation repair or a history of signiﬁcant

64S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

blunt trauma to the chest (especially those with a rapid
deceleration injury). A detailed family history should be
taken to elicit a history of familial TAA and dissection.
The past surgical history is carefully reviewed with speciﬁc attention to prior procedures, including internal
mammary artery to coronary artery transposition, upper
extremity arterial procedures, and hemodialysis access
procedures. The history should also focus on history of
aortic valve disease, recent catheterization of the aorta,
and known TAA, especially in the ascending aorta and
aortic arch. Patients may also have symptoms attributable to compression of adjacent structures in the thorax,
such as dysphagia, shortness of breath, or hoarseness
related to stretching of the recurrent laryngeal nerves,
especially in the setting of a large or saccular proximal
DTA aneurysm.
Physical examination. All patients should undergo a
detailed physical examination designed to ﬁrst detect
the presence of a genetic syndrome associated with
AD or TAA (eg, Marfan, Loeys-Dietz, Ehlers-Danlos, or
Turner syndrome). It is well known that these patients
with genetic syndromes have aneurysms in other
anatomic locations, and thus palpation of the abdomen
and popliteal fossa for aneurysms should be a routine
part of the physical examination.
The history and physical examination should also be
focused on identifying other factors, such as angina or
COPD, that might preclude the patient from undergoing
TEVAR, especially in the setting of general anesthesia.
Physical examination should also include a pulse evaluation, with special attention paid to the presence of
palpable femoral pulses for potential access sites to
deliver the TEVAR.
Diagnostic studies and imaging in symptomatic patients. Recommendation 1: In patients considered at
low or intermediate risk for a TAA based on their history
and physical examination ﬁndings, we suggest chest Xray as the ﬁrst radi