 ruptured AAA, vital
resources, including advanced imaging, trained staff,
and robust endovascular inventory, must be available.
In cases in which transfer is not necessary, the vascular
team should be notiﬁed as soon as a ruptured AAA is
suspected. It may be prudent, however, to transfer a
patient to a higher level facility when such resources
are unavailable.452,453 Patients with good functional status and without severe comorbidity should be transferred without delay. Furthermore, patients who
previously declined elective surgery should be considered for transfer and treatment. Some patients experiencing a ruptured AAA may not be medically ﬁt to
undergo open repair and at the same time are not
anatomically suitable for endovascular repair. The urge
to offer endovascular repair to patients anatomically
unsuitable for such repair should be strongly
resisted.454 Preoperative predictors of death after open
repair include age >76 years, serum creatinine concentration of >2.0 g/dL, pH <7.2, and blood pressure <70
mm Hg at any time. Whereas these risk factors require
more robust validation, when all four are present, open
repair is uniformly fatal.455 As such, goals of care, medical comorbidities, and hemodynamics should be discussed with the receiving vascular surgeon if transfer
is necessary. Ongoing cardiac arrest represents a
contraindication to transfer, given the unlikely survival
of these patients.
Direct physician-to-physician phone handoff is necessary for all patients being transferred. It is imperative
that relevant imaging be transmitted, preferably by an
electronic method.456 Few data exist to guide best management during this critical transfer time. Patients
should receive intravenous nitroglycerin, esmolol,
sodium nitroprusside, and pain medication, as needed,
to avoid hypertension and to minimize the risk of uncontained rupture. Permissive hypotension is appropriate
with limited resuscitation and should be maintained
during transfer. Blood products are preferred to treat
hypotension, but transfer should not be delayed if blood
products are not readily available.457
Systems of care and time goals for intervention.
Timeliness of intervention for the patient with a ruptured
AAA affects outcomes.458-460 A goal of door-to