. As suggested earlier, proctoring for certain procedures may be considered.

REQUIREMENTS FOR HOSPITAL PRIVILEGES IN
VASCULAR SURGERY AND ENDOVASCULAR
INTERVENTIONS AND NONINVASIVE VASCULAR
LABORATORY INTERPRETATION
New applicants. Regarding initial open vascular surgical privileges, hospital credentialing committees must
recognize the high level of training and expertise previously outlined and offer new privileges only to boardeligible or board-certiﬁed vascular surgeons. Regarding
initial endovascular privileges, the SVS also ﬁrmly recommends that hospital committees recognize the high
level of training required by board-eligible and boardcertiﬁed vascular surgeons, which we have also previously detailed. We recognize that physicians from other
specialties may be qualiﬁed to perform endovascular
procedures if they have received sufﬁcient training from
their own ACGME-approved training programs. We agree
with the recommendations of Reed and Gornik9 that
1 year of training devoted to peripheral vascular interventions, in addition to 1 year of coronary intervention
training, be required for interventional cardiologists to be
granted peripheral endovascular privileges. The SVS
recommends that the criteria used in each facility to
grant initial privileges in endovascular procedures be
designed to provide vascular care that is safe and
centered on the best possible patient outcomes using
evidence-based guidelines. As part of the credentialing
process, we recommend that hospitals should have
criteria in place to certify practitioners from different
specialties when performing similar procedures.
Of note, The Joint Commission (www.jointcommission.
org) holds all health care facilities responsible for credentialing physicians to the same standards, irrespective of
the physician’s specialty. Case volumes have been used
as a surrogate for competence for these procedures
with the realization that it is an imperfect standard.2,7
The SVS believes that speciﬁc privileging criteria
including minimum number of cases are not feasible
for endovascular interventions for each vascular tree.
However, speciﬁc criteria have been developed for endovascular interventions for thoracic aortic disease, carotid
artery disease, and others that have been previously
mentioned.
In addition, in accordance with The Joint Commission,
the SVS recommends that credentialing of new applicants should also require veriﬁcation of licensure and