 on identifying the best available evidence on the diagnosis and management of AAA. Speciﬁc areas of focus
included (1) general approach to the patient, (2) treatment of the patient with an AAA, (3) anesthetic considerations and
perioperative management, (4) postoperative and long-term management, and (5) cost and economic considerations.
Results: Along with providing guidance regarding the management of patients throughout the continuum of care, we
have revised a number of prior recommendations and addressed a number of new areas of signiﬁcance. New guidelines are
provided for the surveillance of patients with an AAA, including recommended surveillance imaging at 12-month intervals for
patients with an AAA of 4.0 to 4.9 cm in diameter. We recommend endovascular repair as the preferred method of treatment
for ruptured aneurysms. Incorporating knowledge gained through the Vascular Quality Initiative and other regional quality
collaboratives, we suggest that the Vascular Quality Initiative mortality risk score be used for mutual decision-making with
patients considering aneurysm repair. We also suggest that elective EVAR be limited to hospitals with a documented
mortality and conversion rate to open surgical repair of 2% or less and that perform at least 10 EVAR cases each year. We also
suggest that elective open aneurysm repair be limited to hospitals with a documented mortality of 5% or less and that
perform at least 10 open aortic operations of any type each year. To encourage the development of effective systems of care
that would lead to improved outcomes for those patients undergoing emergent repair, we suggest a door-to-intervention
time of <90 minutes, based on a framework of 30-30-30 minutes, for the management of the patient with a ruptured
aneurysm. We recommend treatment of type I and III endoleaks as well as of type II endoleaks with aneurysm expansion but
recommend continued surveillance of type II endoleaks not associated with aneurysm expansion. Whereas antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended for patients with an aortic prosthesis before any dental procedure involving the manipulation of
the gingival or periapical region of teeth or perforation of the oral mucosa, antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended before
respiratory tract procedures, gastrointestinal or genitourinary procedures, and dermat