 coverage of the thoracic aorta and the
risk of epidural hematoma in a coagulopathic patient, there
was unanimity of opinion that spinal drainage is not routinely indicated, and it should only be placed for symptoms
of spinal cord ischemia.
Issue 8: Choice of anesthesia— general vs regional
vs local. There was a strong consensus favoring general
anesthesia. While it is possible to perform TEVAR under
local anesthesia (minority opinion), unreliable cooperation
of an agitated trauma patient and presence of concomitant
injuries that may require additional surgery make this option less favorable.
Issue 9: Femoral access technique— open vs percutaneous. Nearly all of the committee members favored
open femoral exposure in these cases to minimize potentially avoidable complications related to percutaneous closure of large bore access sites. On the other hand, “percutaneous TEVAR” using suture-mediated closure devices
can be performed safely with low rates of early and late limb
or life threatening events22 and there was a minority opinion, which favored this approach. In the emergent setting,
percutaneous access can also refer to the actual insertion of
the endovascular device without initial surgical exposure of
the femoral artery. The artery is repaired after the endograft
is deployed by surgical exposure, and removal of the delivery system under direct vision. This technique may allow a
more rapid endograft delivery and repair in a hemodynamically unstable patient.
Issue 10: Optimal follow-up strategy. Given the
concerns of cumulative radiation, iodinated contrast exposure, and late endograft collapse, the optimal strategy for
long-term follow-up of these patients post-TEVAR remains in evolution. Opinions varied widely within the
committee as to the frequency and types of imaging that
should be utilized. In the absence of any abnormalities on
imaging (ie, stable endograft position, no endoleak) in the
first 12 to 36 months, some have suggested decreasing the
frequency to 2 to 5 years, while others have expressed that,
lacking any evidence to the contrary, follow-up for traumatic thoracic aortic injuries should be no different than
those treated with TEVAR for other pathologies. There
was, however, some consensus suggesting that a combination of a multi-view chest x-ray and a magnetic resonance
angiography