Society for Vascular Surgery guideline documents. The committee recommends CEA as the first-line treatment for most
symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic patients with stenosis of 60% to 99%. The
perioperative risk of stroke and death in asymptomatic patients must be <3% to ensure benefit for the patient. CAS should
be reserved for symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% at high risk for CEA for anatomic or medical reasons.
CAS is not recommended for asymptomatic patients at this time. Asymptomatic patients at high risk for intervention or
with <3 years life expectancy should be considered for medical management as the first-line therapy. ( J Vasc Surg 2011;
54:e1-e31.)

TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Indications for carotid bifurcation imaging
A. Indications for imaging the neurologically symptomatic patient
B. Indications for imaging the neurologically asymptomatic patient
1. Screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis
a. Screening patients with asymptomatic bruit
b. Potential “high-risk groups” who might
benefit from screening for asymptomatic
stenosis
● Recommendations for the use of carotid bifurcation imaging
II. Selecting imaging modalities for carotid evaluation
From the Washington Hospital Center, Georgetown University School of
Medicine, Washington, DCa; University of West Virginia, Charlestonb;
Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklync; Northwestern University, Chicagod; Mount Sinai University School of Medicine, New Yorke; and
University Maryland, Baltimore.f
Competition of interest: none.
Reprint requests: John J. Ricotta, MD, Chairman Department of Surgery,
Washington Hospital Center, 110 Irving St NW, Ste G253, Washington,
DC 20010 (e-mail: john.j.ricotta@medstar.net).
The editors and reviewers of this article have no relevant financial relationships
to disclose per the JVS policy that requires reviewers to decline review of any
manuscript for which they may have a competition of interest.
0741-5214/$36.00
Copyright © 2011 by the Society for