 or nonpitting, induration, pigmentation, lipodermatosclerosis, atrophie blanche, eczema, dermatitis, skin
discoloration, increased skin temperature, and healed or
active ulcers should be documented.
Ankle mobility should also be examined, because patients with advanced venous disease frequently have decreased mobility in the ankle joints. Sensory and motor
functions of the limb and foot are assessed to help differen-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May Supplement 2011

10S Gloviczki et al

tiate from diabetic neuropathy or any underlying neurologic problem. An abdominal mass or lymphadenopathy
may be a clue to venous compression and outflow
obstruction.
Corona phlebectatica (ankle flare or malleolar flare)
is a fan-shaped pattern of small intradermal veins located
around the ankle or the dorsum of the foot. This is
considered an early sign of advanced venous disease. The
pattern of the varicose veins should be established, because perineal, vulvar, or groin varicosity can be a sign of
iliac vein obstruction or internal iliac vein or gonadal
vein incompetence causing pelvic congestion syndrome.
Scrotal varicosity may be a sign of gonadal vein incompetence, left renal vein compression between the superior mesenteric artery and the aorta (nutcracker syndrome), or occasionally, even IVC lesions or renal
carcinoma. Varicose veins of the upper thigh can be
caused by inferior gluteal vein reflux.72,73
Classic tourniquet tests for saphenous or perforator
incompetence or deep venous occlusion (Trendelenburg
test, Ochsner-Mahorner test, Perthes test)71 are rarely used
today; they are mostly of historic interest and should be
used in rare instances, when duplex scanning or Doppler
studies are not available. Distal palpation and proximal
percussion of the saphenous vein, however, are useful tests
to suggest valvular incompetence.
Skin lesions, such as capillary malformations, tumors,
onychomycosis, or excoriations, should be noted and a
complete pulse examination performed to exclude underlying peripheral arterial disease. An aneur