 both vessels provides more durable relief, and the second (or additional)
intervention adds cost and potential risk.
There is likely a role for revascularization in patients
with symptoms consistent with CMI and occlusive disease isolated to single mesenteric vessel, particularly
the SMA. Patients with CMI typically have MAOD
affecting both the CA and the SMA or all three of the
mesenteric vessels as noted, and there has been a classic
teaching that stressed the concept that patients cannot
develop CMI unless at least two of the three mesenteric
vessels are involved given the collateral network and
redundancy in the mesenteric circulation. However, this
teaching point is likely incorrect; it is possible to develop
CMI from isolated mesenteric involvement, usually in the
setting of a poor collateral network between the mesenteric vessels. The common clinical scenario is a patient
with vague abdominal complaints, not necessarily
consistent with CMI, who is found to have signiﬁcant
occlusive disease isolated to the SMA or CA. The treatment decision represents a balance between the natural
history of untreated CMI and the risks/costs associated
with the open or endovascular treatment. Unfortunately,

98S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

there is no functional study to truly conﬁrm or refute the
diagnosis. This small cohort of patients should undergo
the extensive diagnostic evaluation outlined elsewhere
in this article for patients with the more classic symptoms of CMI. Revascularization can serve as both a diagnostic and therapeutic tool in this setting, with the
resolution of symptoms conﬁrming the diagnosis.
Notably, van Dijk et al99,100 published their series (n ¼
59) of patients with symptoms consistent with CMI and
isolated MAOD (CA, 81%; SMA, 19%). They reported that
73% of the patients had sustained relief of their symptoms and that the favorable results were not related to
the location of the lesion (ie, CA vs SMA).
Because the natural history of patients with asymptomatic MAOD remains poorly deﬁned, it is no surprise that
the indications for prophylactic revascularization remain
unresolved. Justiﬁcation for revascularization in this
setting is provided by the