 than one and for a beneﬁcial intervention
(patency) would be greater than one. Because of anticipated heterogeneity, the DerSimonian and Laird random
effects model7 was used to pool estimates from the
included studies. The I2 statistic was used to estimate
heterogeneity. Analysis was done using R Statistical
Computing software version 4.0.0 (The R Foundation,
Vienna, Austria). Data were insufﬁcient to conduct

ARTICLE HIGHLIGHTS
d

d

d

Type of Research: Systematic review and metaanalysis to support Society for Vascular Surgery
guideline.
Key Findings: This meta-analysis provides event rates
for patient important outcomes after treatment of
popliteal artery aneurysms.
Take Home Message: The open approach for treating
popliteal artery aneurysms is associated with higher primary patency and lower short-term occlusion, but
longer hospital stay and more wound complications.
There was no signiﬁcant difference in mortality or
amputation rate between open and endovascular
approaches.

preplanned subgroup analyses (aneurysm size, extension
to superﬁcial femoral artery, and concomitant aneurysms).
We used the GRADE approach to evaluate certainty in the
evidence (also called quality of evidence).8 In this approach,
randomized trials start at high level of certainty and observational studies start at low level of certainty. Certainty can
be graded down owing to study limitations, imprecision,
indirectness, inconsistency, or publication bias. Certainty
can also be increased, for example, for a large effect size.9

RESULTS
Included studies. We identiﬁed 32 original studies in 33
publications10-42 and 4 systematic reviews1,43-45 from 2191
candidate references. The Fig depicts the process of
study selection. Thirty original studies in 31
publications10-20,22-34,36-42 were included in the quantitative synthesis comparing OAR and EVAR. These
studies included 5381 patients with mean age range of
63 to 68 years; 91.6% of patients were male (descriptive
data are from studies that reported outcomes per
patient, not per aneurys