atic Disorders
March 2023

DISCLAIMER
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) develops evidenced-based clinical practice guidelines as a resource
to assist members in the practice of vascular surgery.
The guideline recommendations contained herein are
based on a recent review of published evidence. They
reﬂect the available body of evidence, and their applicability reﬂects the limitations of that data and are subject
to reassessment and revision as new knowledge emerges.
Given these limitations, clinical practice guidelines do not
represent a statement of the standard of care, nor do they
substitute for clinician judgment or supplant patient preference or shared decision-making. The Society of Vascular
Surgery recognizes that departure from guidelines may
be warranted when, in the reasonable judgment of the
treating clinician, such course of action is indicated by
the clinical presentation of the patient, limitations of available resources, advances in knowledge or technology, or
patient preference. The reader must rely solely on their
own judgment to determine what practices and procedures, whether included in this practice guideline or not,
are appropriate for them, their patient, their institution,
or their practice.

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
GUIDELINE 1.
1.1. For patients with chronic venous disease of the lower
extremities, we recommend duplex ultrasound scanning as the diagnostic test of choice to evaluate for
venous reﬂux.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
Implementation remarks of recommendation 1.1:
1.1.a. Reﬂux is deﬁned as a minimum value >500 ms of
reversed ﬂow in the superﬁcial truncal veins (great
saphenous vein, small saphenous vein, anterior
accessory great saphenous vein, posterior accessory
great saphenous vein) and in the tibial, deep femoral,
and perforating veins. A minimum value >1 second
of reversed ﬂow is diagnostic of reﬂux in the common femoral, femoral, and popliteal veins.
1.1.b. Axial reﬂux is deﬁned as uninterrupted retrograde
venous ﬂow from the groin to the calf. Retrograde
ﬂow can occur in the superﬁcial or deep veins,
with or without perforating veins