Prosthetic brachial–antecubital forearm looped access. This
prosthetic access is performed between the antecubital vein
and the brachial artery in the antecubital fossa using a
prosthetic graft as conduit. The antecubital vein and brachial artery are exposed through a transverse incision in the
antecubital fossa. The prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially in a forearm loop between the antecubital vein and
the brachial artery to perform the two anastomoses.
Upper arm prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic brachial–axillary (vein) upper arm access. This prosthetic access is performed between the axillary or brachial vein in the axilla and
the brachial artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit. The
axillary vein is exposed through a longitudinal incision in
the axilla. The brachial artery is exposed through a longitudinal incision at or just proximal to the antecubital fossa
overlying the palpable brachial artery pulse. The prosthetic
graft is tunneled superficially and laterally between the
axillary vein and the brachial artery to perform the two
anastomoses.
Lower extremity prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic femoral
artery–femoral vein lower extremity looped access. This prosthetic access is performed between the femoral vein and the
femoral artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit. The

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

22S Sidawy et al

femoral vein and artery are exposed through longitudinal or
transverse incisions. The prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially in a loop between the femoral vein and artery to
perform the two anastomoses.70,124
Body wall prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest access (necklace prosthetic access). This prosthetic access is performed between the axillary vein and the
contralateral axillary artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit. The axillary vein is exposed through a transverse
infraclavicular incision and is located deep to the pectoralis
major muscle. Through a similar incision, the contr