 with recurrent neurologic symptoms despite antithrombotic therapy, those who experience cerebral hypoperfusion due to hemodynamic effects of the dissection, or those
in whom antithrombotic therapy is contraindicated. Open
surgical therapy may be associated with significant rates of
perioperative CVA and cranial nerve injury. The largest case
series reported a 12.5% rate of combined recurrent stroke and
death and a 58% rate of cranial nerve injury.263
More recently, endovascular techniques, including stent
placement with or without adjunctive angioplasty, have been
evaluated. Relatively few reports have been published on a
small number of patients with dissection.264-266 These initial
results provide some encouragement, with the development
of new or progressive symptoms occurring infrequently. Endovascular therapies appear to provide significantly superior
results compared with open surgical approaches, with lower
stroke rates and no cranial nerve injuries.
A comprehensive literature review identified 62 patients treated by endovascular means. The technical success
rate reported was 100%, and the 1-year patency rate was
100%. The rate of recurrent CVA was 11% with no
deaths.264-266 No large series have been reported, and a
multicenter trial appears to be warranted. With these considerations, endovascular treatment of patients when medical management fails appears to be justified.
● Recommendations for management of carotid
dissection
1. Patients with carotid dissection should be initially
treated with antithrombotic therapy (antiplatelet agents
or anticoagulation) (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence C).
2. Patients who remain symptomatic on medical therapy
may be considered for intervention. Although data are
insufficient to make firm recommendations, the committee unanimously agreed that balloon angioplasty and
stenting is currently preferred over open surgery after
failed medical management (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C).
D. Combined carotid and coronary disease
The incidence of concomitant carotid and coronary
atherosclerosis is significant. Patients who have coronary

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

disease amenable to percutaneous coronary intervention
should be treated in that manner