ed at the index procedure. Admittedly, this is only a single series, but it suggests that many of the recurrent
stenoses are really inadequately treated index lesions,
underscoring the importance of completion imaging
and an adequate initial technical result.

110S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

January Supplement 2021

The remedial strategies for a failing or thrombosed
bypass graft are similar to those outlined for the endovascular approach. Although somewhat counterintuitive,
endovascular options should be thoroughly explored
given the complexity of a reoperative mesenteric bypass.
Kanamori et al173 identiﬁed 47 patients with failing or
thrombosed mesenteric bypasses presenting with CMI
(81%) and AMI (91%). Remedial endovascular therapy
was possible in 40% and was associated with a lower
periprocedural complication rate, although the periprocedural mortality and longer term recurrence and reinterventions rates were similar to the patients
undergoing remedial open procedures. Notably, the outcomes after the remedial open revascularization procedures were comparable with the ﬁrst-time procedures in
their case-matched controls, although the patency rates
were inferior. The remedial open revascularizations can
be facilitated by using an alternative inﬂow source to
avoid some of the challenges associated with a reoperative ﬁeld (ie, convert failed retrograde bypass to antegrade bypass or vice versa). Notably, Zacharias et al114
reported that the perioperative mortality was higher
among patients undergoing open revascularization after
a failed endovascular revascularization when compared
with the primary endovascular or open groups (15% vs
2%; P ¼ .005). Giswold et al174 have reported reasonable
outcomes after redo mesenteric bypass (n ¼ 22) with a
perioperative mortality and morbidity rate of 6% and
33%, respectively, and a 1-year primary patency and survival rate of 74% and 76%, respectively. Furthermore,
alternative outﬂow sources should be considered.
Schneider et al96 reported a small series of isolated IMA
revascularizations for CMI. They stated that