1 studies demonstrated
improved patency relative to PTA without drug coating but
were limited by small sample sizes, heterogeneous patient
populations, and incomplete follow-up. Two larger regulatory trials (LEVANT 2, IN.PACT SFA216) have recently reported improved patency for drug-coated versus uncoated
balloon angioplasty in femoropopliteal disease. As a result,
the FDA has recently approved two drug-coated balloon devices for the treatment of occlusive lesions in the SFA and
popliteal artery. It remains unclear how drug coated balloon
angioplasty will compare in durability to other approaches
such as stents referenced above. Bioabsorbable DESs are
currently being evaluated in Europe but are not available
within the United States.
The efﬁcacy of EVT must also be weighed against the
potential for acute and long-term complications. Common
endovascular complications include arterial dissection at
the area of treatment site, arterial perforation, pseudoaneurysm creation, acute recoil associated with abrupt closure or
restenosis, embolization distal to the site of intervention,
and arteriovenous ﬁstula creation. Implantation of a stent
also carries speciﬁc, stent-related risk factors, including
stent fracture, chronic arterial erosion, and perforation.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Long-term complications include restenosis with potential
occlusion, loss of collateral branches at the site of the endovascular procedure, and late pseudoaneurysm formation.
One additional consideration with EVT is its effect on subsequent open surgical bypass, which has been reported to be
required in 10% to 25% of patients for failed interventions.
In one study by Joels et al,217 EVT altered the level of the
expected outﬂow target to amore distal level in 30% of patients. Previous EVT, with or without stents, may adversely
affect graft patency, limb salvage, and amputation-free survival compared with bypasses done as initial therapy for
CLI.218 Failure of stented endovascular interventions done
for claudication has resulted in acute limb ischemia, especially when covered stents grafts have been used.219 In addition to these observations,