include physicians who are board certiﬁed in vascular surgery, general surgery, or cardiothoracic surgery. These physicians
with an established practice in vascular surgery should participate in Maintenance of Certiﬁcation programs as
established by the American Board of Surgery and maintain their respective board certiﬁcation. Fourth, we provide
recommendations concerning guidelines for endovascular procedures for vascular surgeons and other vascular interventionalists who are applying for new or renewed hospital privileges. All physicians performing open or endovascular
procedures should track outcomes using nationally validated registries, ideally by the Vascular Quality Initiative. Fifth, we
endorse the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission recommendations for noninvasive vascular laboratory
interpretations and examinations to become a Registered Physician in Vascular Interpretation, which is included in the
requirements for board eligibility in vascular surgery, but recommend that only physicians with demonstrated clinical
experience in the diagnosis and management of vascular disease be allowed to interpret these studies. (J Vasc Surg
2018;67:1337-44.)

The following recommendations of the Society for
Vascular Surgery (SVS) are meant to provide guidelines
for granting hospital privileges to perform vascular

interventions including open surgical and endovascular
procedures of blood vessels in the body, excluding intracardiac and intracranial vessels. Of note, these

From the Section of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, Pennsylvania

Committee: Thomas L. Forbes, MD (Chair), Ali AbuRahma, MD, Neal

Hospital, Philadelphiaa; the Division of Vascular Surgery, Upstate Medical Uni-

Barshes, MD, Ruth Bush, MD, Ronald L. Dalman, MD, Hans Henning Eck-

versity, Syracuseb; the New York Presbyterian Brooklyn Methodist Hospital,

stein, MD, Anil Hingorani, MD, Eva Rzucidlo, MD, Marc Schermerhorn, MD.

Brooklync; the Division of Vascular Surgery, William Beaumont Hospital, Royal

The Document Oversight Committee approved the ﬁnal version, and the

Oakd; the St. Anthony’s Hospital, St. Petersburge; the Division of Vascular Sur-

Guidelines were endorsed as an ofﬁcial SVS document by the Executive

gery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburghf; the Western Mich-

Committee: