-329 The
most common technique calls for transection of the ICA
at the distal end point and an anastomosis performed
with greater saphenous vein or appropriately sized
prosthetic, usually 6 mm. By performing a distal ﬁrst, the
length of the bypass can be judged so there is no kinking.
One option is to close the arteriotomy on the CCA preserving the external carotid artery into and end-to-side
anastomosis more proximally on the CCA. Alternatively,
one can use the area with which one did an endarterectomy and place the heel of the bypass on the external
carotid artery and trying to preserve it.326 Last, in extreme
circumstances, the external carotid artery can be ligated.
Summary and recommendations.
1. There is Level 1 evidence to support a recommendation in favor of routine carotid patching.
2. Primary closure may be safely practiced in a large ICA
of greater than 6 mm.
3. There is also no difference between preferential use of
various patch materials, whether saphenous vein, jugular vein or synthetic patches (ACUSEAL, PTFE,
Dacron, or pericardial patches).
4. Based on available data, there is no difference in
stroke/death rates between CCEA with patch closure
and ECEA.
5. The rate of signiﬁcant post-CEA stenosis with CEA
with patching is somewhat similar with ECEA; however, ECEA had a lower post-CEA stenosis rate than patients undergoing CEA with primary closure.
Technical tips for high carotid lesions
High bifurcation or stenosis extending above C2 can present a technical challenge, as well as an increased risk of
cranial nerve injuries. Although this is not a common problem, clinicians must be prepared to approach these high
lesions. The ﬁrst indication of an unusually high lesion
could be inability to image above the lesion when

performing the ultrasound assessment. In these instances,
corroborative CTA and/or MR imaging must be performed
to fully evaluate operative approaches. In highly select
cases, the presence of distal disease extension may
prompt the surgeon to reconsider whether CAS is more
appropriate (especially in asympt