 endovascular and open surgical
intervention.
6. Critical care management: Management of patients
including preoperative and postoperative evaluation
and treatment of vascular patients in the intensive
care setting. This management includes understanding indications and techniques for the insertion of
peripheral artery, central venous, and pulmonary
artery catheters for hemodynamic monitoring.
In summary, it is the position of the SVS that vascular
surgeons are the only specialists trained to treat patients
with all of the deﬁned vascular disorders and vascular
trees with both open and endovascular treatments while
also being able to effectively treat complications with
appropriate endovascular or open surgical methods.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Calligaro et al

1339

Volume 67, Number 5

TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION IN VASCULAR
SURGERY
Currently there are three pathways approved by the
ACGME for training in vascular surgery that lead to board
certiﬁcation by the American Board of Surgery (ABS), a
member board of the American Board of Medical
Specialties.
1. Traditional pathway. This traditional training paradigm,
which requires 7 years to complete, is referred to as a
5 þ 2 pathway. This pathway remains the most common training paradigm, with 77 vascular surgery
training programs in the Electronic Residency Application Service of the Association of American Medical
Colleges participating in this traditional pathway
(www.aamc.org). This pathway requires completion of
a 5-year general surgery training program at an
ACGME-approved site with a minimum experience of
850 total operative procedures during this training.
Completion of general surgery training is followed by
2 years of vascular surgery training at an ACGMEapproved site, which can be at the same institution
or a different one, with an operative experience requirement of at least 250 major vascular reconstructions. On
completing this traditional 5 þ 2 pathway, the trainee is
eligible for board certiﬁcation in both general surgery
and vascular surgery by the ABS. Although the ABS
initially required board certiﬁcation in general surgery
before board certiﬁcation in vascular surgery, an ABS
policy enacted in 2012 now requires that the candidate
have only an approved application for the general surgery qualifying examination for eligibility for vascular
surgery boards (www