depending on
results, methodologic
circumstances or patients’
ﬂaws, indirect, or
or societal values
imprecise) or exceptionally
strong evidence from
observational studies

2C

Weak recommendation,
low-quality or very
low-quality evidence

Uncertainty in the estimates
of beneﬁts and risk, and
burdens; risk, beneﬁt, and
burdens may be closely
balanced

Observational studies
or case series

Strong recommendation
but may change when
higher quality evidence
becomes available

Very weak recommendations;
other alternatives may be
reasonable

RCTs, Randomized controlled trials.
Adapted from Guyatt G, Gutterman D, Baumann MH, Addrizzo-Harris D, Hylek EM, Phillips B, et al. Grading strength of recommendations and quality
of evidence in clinical guidelines: report from an American College of Chest Physicians task force. Chest 2006;129:174-81.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

19

Volume 7, Number 1

The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system (Table) was
used throughout the entire process of review and synthesis.2,3 The quality of evidence was rated high when
additional research was considered very unlikely to
change conﬁdence in the estimate of effect; moderate
when further research was likely to have an important
impact on the estimate of effect; or low when further
research was very likely to change the estimate of the
effect. When the beneﬁts of an intervention outweighed
its risks, a strong recommendation was noted. However,
if beneﬁts and risks were less certain, either because of
low-quality evidence or because high-quality evidence
suggested that beneﬁts and risks were closely balanced,
a weak recommendation was recorded. Guideline developers used the terms “we recommend” to denote strong
recommendations, whereas for weak recommendations,
they used the less deﬁnitive wording “we suggest.”
Following the methodology of previous AVF Guidelines,
when evidence was lacking or there were no comparable
alternatives to a recommendation, the recommendation
was labeled [BEST PRACTICE]. These grades were
reviewed and approved by the entire writing group and
served as the basis for grading of the recommendations.
