 presence of
symptoms and the importance of seeking medical
care. Accordingly, revascularization may be justiﬁed for
noncompliant patients or those with limited access to
medical care. Revascularization is also likely indicated
in the presence of vague or nonspeciﬁc abdominal pain
given the potential adverse sequelae, including progression to AMI.
The perioperative perturbations associated with any
major surgical procedure, particularly open and endovascular aortic aneurysm repair, can lead to mesenteric
ischemia in patients with signiﬁcant MAOD. This is relevant for open aortic procedures given the physiologic
and hemodynamic changes and the potential disruption
of any collateral networks, particularly the marginal artery that runs at the base of the mesentery adjacent to
the inferior mesenteric vein. Similarly, it is relevant for

endovascular aneurysm repair owing to the obligatory
exclusion of the IMA by the endovascular device and
the frequent need to coil embolize the vessel to prevent
a signiﬁcant type II endoleak. Review of the preoperative
CTA to examine the status of the CA, SMA, IMA, and internal iliac artery should be obligatory before any aortic
reconstruction. This review should include an evaluation
of any collateral vessels between the named mesenteric
vessels, suggesting a hemodynamically signiﬁcant stenosis. Preoperative or concomitant revascularization of the
SMA and/or CA is likely justiﬁed in this setting, although
revascularization represents a balance between the additional morbidity and mortality associated with repair vs
the risk associated with progression to CMI or AMI after
aortic reconstruction. Unfortunately, the role for prophylactic revascularization in this setting remains unresolved. The Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice
guidelines for abdominal aortic aneurysms have recommended (2C) “prophylactic treatment of asymptomatic,
high-grade stenosis of the SMA in the presence of a
meandering mesenteric artery based off a large IMA,
which will be sacriﬁced during the course of treatment”.103 The choice of revascularization included both
endovascular and open approaches, with the former
approach generally favored provided that the lesions
are amenable. A study