 rupture, and the concern for a symptomatic
aneurysm should not preclude thorough examination.
An abdominal aneurysm is common (37%-40%) in
patients with popliteal artery aneurysms,76-78 as are
concurrent distal arterial aneurysms in patients with an
AAA.79-81

In patients with a suspected or known AAA, we recommend
performing physical examination that includes an
assessment of femoral and popliteal arteries.
In patients with a popliteal or femoral artery aneurysm, we
recommend evaluation for an AAA.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

A (High)

Assessment of medical comorbidities
Preoperative evaluation of cardiac risk. Despite
improvements in cardiovascular risk factor management,
5-year survival after successful aneurysm repair remains
below 70%.82-84 Cardiovascular and pulmonary disease
remain the leading causes of early and late death after
OSR or EVAR.85 EVAR is associated with a threefold
reduction in perioperative mortality compared with
propensity-matched patients undergoing elective OSR,86
including even younger patients with fewer comorbidities.87,88 For patients with advanced chronic renal
insufﬁciency89 and oxygen-dependent COPD,90 EVAR
outcomes are superior to those achieved with contemporary OSR, particularly when it is performed under local
or regional anesthesia. However, despite the reduced risk
compared with OSR, EVAR remains an intermediate- to
high-risk procedure for cardiovascular complication.

Given the risk associated with either OSR or EVAR, it is
essential to evaluate the overall operative risk associated
with either method of repair. The ﬁrst step should be to
determine whether an active cardiovascular condition
exists (Table III), which would mandate further assessment and management before planned aneurysm
repair. In the absence of an active cardiovascular condition, further testing, as dictated by functional capacity
and cardiovascular risk factors, is indicated only if the results will change the planned treatment approach.
Functional capacity can be estimated from a simple activity assessment (Table IV). Patients capable of moderate physical activities, such as climbing two ﬂights of
stairs or running a short distance (MET $ 4), will not
beneﬁ