19

Volume 78, Number 5

Rationale
Revascularisation should not be performed if there is
no realistic chance of wound healing, when major
amputation is inevitable, a functional foot is unlikely
to be achieved, or when life expectancy is short and
there is unlikely to be beneﬁt to the person. The
Writing Committee considered that in such persons
any revascularisation procedure is unlikely to be of
beneﬁt to the person and may cause harm. Many
affected individuals pose high peri-procedural risk
because of comorbidities. In particular, the following
people may not be suitable for revascularisation: those
who are very frail, have short life expectancy, have
poor functional status, are bed bound, and or have a
large area of tissue destruction that renders the foot
functionally unsalvageable and those who cannot realistically be expected to mobilise following revascularisation. There are occasional situations where an
arterial inﬂow procedure is performed to improve
the likelihood of healing of a major limb amputation
(below or above knee).
There is evidence from several observational studies
of a 50% healing rate for ischaemic DFU in people
with diabetes unsuitable for revascularisation and this
should also be considered in determining choice of
care.74,100 The decision to proceed to primary amputation, or to adopt a palliative approach, should be made
in conjunction with the person and the multidisciplinary team110 including a vascular specialist unless
an emergency procedure is indicated as discussed
earlier. The Writing Committee considered that in
these circumstances where healing is improbable a
person is unlikely to value the outcomes from revascularisation over no revascularisation. Similarly in such circumstances the beneﬁt of revascularisation will not
outweigh the potential harms.
Clinical question
In people with diabetes, PAD, and either a foot ulcer or
gangrene, how does endovascular revascularisation
compare with open or hybrid revascularisation?

Recommendation 17
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene who has an adequate single segment
saphenous vein in whom infrainguinal revascularisation is
indicated and who is suitable for either approach, consider
bypass in preference to endovascular therapy.
Grade