iveness studies available to help guide the clinician
to make appropriate decisions on use of these products. Evidence in this expanding ﬁeld will need to be evaluated so
that populations of patients who would beneﬁt the most
from speciﬁc tissue products can be identiﬁed. A signiﬁcant
role for patient-centered outcomes measures also needs to
be incorporated into trial design in the future. The patient’s preferences will need to be balanced with clinical efﬁcacy and economic factors in the face of health care
reform.
Compression
The use of compression has been a fundamental treatment component for VLU, but certain knowledge gaps still
exist. Objective measures of the “dose” of compression
should be used in future studies. These measures, which
include resting interface pressure at a standard point and
stiffness (change in this pressure during standing and
walking), need to be factored into compression effectiveness. These objective measures should replace such current
classiﬁcations as “elastic” and “inelastic” bandages, especially for multibandage systems. The real behavior of a
bandage and bandage system is not the elastic property
tested in the laboratory but its clinical behavior on the leg.
Even a single bandage applied with overlaps becomes a
multilayer wrap with different mechanical properties. The
friction between multiple layers increases stiffness of the
wraps, especially when the surface of a component is adhesive
or cohesive and when substances like zinc paste are used.
In assessing the role of compression, there are other
needs. Standard training with objective quality control

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

should be used in studies of bandages and bandage systems; most of the comparative studies to date were performed in centers inexperienced with short-stretch
material. A large-scale RCT is needed to study whether
compression prevents the recurrence of venous ulcers.
The role of IPC in treatment of venous ulcer patients needs
to be deﬁned, especially in patients who cannot tolerate
compression therapy or who have failed to respond to prolonged compression therapy alone. Finally, methods for
assessing the patient’s compliance with wearing of these
garments/devices that are better than “patient diaries”
should be developed. These monitoring devices are being
employed in the treatment of other diseases, like the diabetic foot.
Operative/Endovascular