 be considered candidates for
stenting. A minority felt that in the absence of trials comparing
medical therapy with stenting in this cohort, such a recommendation, even as GRADE 2 was ill advised.
We also failed to reach consensus over many details in
the technical performance of endarterectomy and stenting.
Originally we had hoped to present technical guidelines using
the GRADE system, but we found both that supporting data
were inconsistent and generally of low quality and that all
recommendations were GRADE 2 (at best). For example, the
authors could not reach consensus on whether protamine
reversal of heparin after carotid declamping should be recommended or not recommended. Some small scale prospective
randomized trials support protamine use and others support
its avoidance. Similarly, we could not reach consensus on
optimal cerebral monitoring and protection during endarterectomy or on the preferred patch for use in carotid
closure. Since each of us has strong, though not necessarily
fully evidence-based, opinions on these and other technical

486 Hobson et al

points and since each of us is reputed to be expert in
endarterectomy and/or stenting, we felt that we must
report our inability to reach consensus and conclude that
each surgeon must establish his/her own preferred technique, monitor his/her results carefully, and modify the
chosen technique if problems are identified or compelling
new data become available.
We are hopeful that these guidelines will be useful to carotid
surgeons, will promote a uniform, evidence based, effective and
safe approach to carotid disease management, and will serve the
best interests of those patients who seek our help.
This article is dedicated to Dr Robert Hobson in recognition of his leading role in bringing scientific discipline
to the study of carotid disease management.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, AC, VM,
ME, DM, RB, BP
Analysis and interpretation: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, AC,
VM, ME, DM, RB, BL, BP
Data collection: RH, WM, HM,VM, BP
Writing the article: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, BL, BP
Critical revision of the article: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, AC,
VM, ME, DM, RB, BL,