 cerebral embolization and stroke.62
Plaque morphology is an important feature in assessing
future risk of neurologic events. Heterogeneous plaques
have been shown to increase the risk of neurologic symptoms (TIA/stroke)63,64 and were also associated with an
incidence of TIA/stroke that was higher than that in homogenous plaques for all grades of stenosis.64 Using DUS
imaging and computerized image analysis65 quantifying
the gray scale median of the plaque, Biasi et al66 demonstrated that gray scale median values of ⱕ25 were associated
with an increased stroke risk of carotid stenting procedures.
Nicolaides et al67 recently concluded that morphologic
assessment of plaque structure may allow the identification
of a subgroup of asymptomatic carotid stenoses with a
4.5-fold increase in the risk of developing ipsilateral neurologic symptoms compared with those with a similar degree
of stenosis, which will reduce the number of patients requiring intervention to prevent one stroke. At present,
however, this type of plaque analysis66,67 is not widely
available and requires further prospective evaluation to
determine its ultimate clinical utility.
The imaging modalities most often used to evaluate
patients for cervical carotid stenosis are carotid DUS
(CDUS), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and angiography (MRA), computed tomography angiography (CTA),
and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Each of these
will be discussed in turn.
A. Carotid duplex ultrasound imaging
DUS imaging provides an accurate and reliable noninvasive tool to determine the degree of cervical carotid
stenosis and plaque morphology in most patients. It is
usually the initial study in patients who present with symptoms or a carotid bruit. Because the study is highly dependent on technique, testing should be done in an accredited
vascular laboratory (eg, Intersocietal Commission for the
Accreditation of Vascular Laboratories), and the images
should be reviewed by physicians experienced in vascular
ultrasound interpretation.
Determining the degree of carotid artery stenosis is
largely based on an analysis of the peak systolic velocity
(PSV) or the end-diastolic velocity (EDV), or both, of the
carotid artery. A