17,18 Due to the shorter delivery systems, often
these devices could not reach the site of injury from the
femoral approach, which necessitated either use of a longer
makeshift delivery system or access through a more proximal site. The lengths of extension cuffs are typically short,
and this required multiple overlapping pieces. Such an
intercalating construction allowed slightly improved conformation to the arch but at the same time introduced
multiple junctions, which were potential sources of type III
endoleaks.
A number of next generation devices are presently
undergoing clinical trials that may address some of the
unmet needs of this therapy. Cook (Bloomington, Ind) has
recently introduced the Pro-Form delivery system that is
intended to improve arch conformability, and in the near
future the TX2 LP (low-profile), which will decrease the
profile of the delivery catheter and broaden the range of
available diameters. Medtronic (Santa Rosa, Calif) will
introduce the Valiant thoracic endograft with the Captivia delivery system, which should enhance the stability
and reliability of the deployment mechanism. W. L. Gore
(Flagstaff, Ariz) is currently conducting clinical trials of
their c (conformable)-TAG device, with which preliminary experience outside the United States appears to
show improved arch conformability and greater tolerance to device oversizing.
Issue 5: LSA management during zone 2 coverage.
There was near unanimity of opinion for selective revascu-

larization (either before or after TEVAR) depending on the
status of the vertebral anatomy, with a minority opinion
favoring routine revascularization.19 In the current metaanalysis,9 the LSA was covered in 30% of cases. Preservation
of antegrade perfusion on the side of the dominant vertebral artery can specifically decrease the risk of posterior
circulation strokes.20 However, the urgency of the repair
and the condition of the victim may preclude preoperative
assessment. If the LSA is covered, intraoperative angiography of the right vertebral artery would allow the most
expeditious assessment of the adequacy of the posterior
circulation. If the right vertebral artery is atretic or hypoplastic with or without an intact Circle of Willis, the decision to revascularize the left subclavian artery