 Epub Ahead of Print, In-Process & Other
Non-Indexed Citations, and Daily, Ovid EMBASE, Ovid
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Ovid
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Scopus.
The search strategy was designed and conducted by a
medical reference librarian with input from the

investigators. We also included references from experts
and bibliographies of included trials. Controlled vocabulary supplemented with keywords was used to search for
English studies of DUS examination for the detection of
saphenous vein incompetence, endovenous ablation, surgical stripping for saphenous vein incompetence in adults
with varicose veins, and ablation of incompetent perforator
veins in adults with simple varicose veins. The detailed
search strategy listing all search terms used and how they
are combined is available in Appendix A (online only).
Study selection and data extraction. Two reviewers
independently screened titles and abstracts of candidate
studies. Included studies by either reviewer were retrieved
for full-text screening. Pairs of independent reviewers
screened the full text of eligible studies. The

1160

Farah et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
September 2022

methodologic quality of studies and collected descriptive,
methodologic, and outcomes data were determined by
the reviewers. Data from included studies were extracted
by pairs of independent reviewers using a standardized
form created by a web-based program (DistillerSR,
Evidence Partners, Ottawa, Canada). Disagreements were
resolved by consensus or by a third reviewer.
Risk of bias and certainty of the evidence. Two independent reviewers assessed the risk of bias in the included
studies. The Cochrane tool for risk of bias assessment was
used for randomized clinical trials.17 This tool considers six

domains, including sequence generation, allocation
concealment, blinding of participants, incomplete
outcome data, selective outcome reporting, and other
sources of bias such as the source of funding and conﬂict
of interest. We used a modiﬁed version of the NewcastleOttawa scale for observational studies,18 focusing on the
exposed cohort’s representativeness and nonexposed
cohort, ascertainment of exposure and outcomes,
comparability of cohorts, and adequacy of follow-up