8%, and 77% for
PTFE and 76%, 83%, and 85% for
saphenous vein graft
Endovascular vs surgical
reconstruction

Four RCTs and six
observational studies
reporting on 2817
patients with FP
arterial disease233

CI, Conﬁdence interval; CLI, critical limb ischemia; DES, drug-eluting stent; OR, odds ratio; PAD, peripheral arterial
disease; PTFE, polytetraﬂuoroethylene; RCT, randomized controlled trial; SFA, superﬁcial femoral artery.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

28S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Assessing the efﬁcacy of revascularization for IC
Patients undergoing revascularization for claudication
desire durable improvement in pain-free walking and functional independence. Claudication rarely progresses to limb
loss, and as such, treatment with endovascular or open surgery should never result in major or minor amputation.
Consequently, limb salvage is not considered proof of efﬁcacy of any procedure undertaken to treat IC, and in fact,
loss of the limb should be considered a catastrophic failure
of therapy. The usual efﬁcacy end points in clinical trials
include standardized measures of walking ability such as
the initial time to onset of claudication, maximal walking
distance, and the 6-minute walk test; however, these end
points are rarely used in clinical practice. Patients undergoing lower extremity revascularization for claudication
should have documented improvement in symptoms as
well as hemodynamic evidence of improvement in lower
extremity perfusion. As stated above, anatomic patency is
considered a prerequisite for sustained hemodynamic
improvement and clinical beneﬁt in IC.
Postintervention medical treatment
After intervention for lower extremity vascular disease,
aggressive medical therapy is indicated not only to prevent
future cardiovascular events but also to improve patency of
the revascularization. Patients should be counseled on risk
factor modiﬁcation, as previously described, and have
accepted pharmacologic treatment for system atherosclerosis, especially statins and antiplatelet therapy. In some patients, systemic anticoagulation may also be required.
Antiplate