
superﬁcial truncal vein and an accessory vein, as well as
the depth and extent of the reﬂux. In addition, a DUS examination can identify perforating veins along the path
of the truncal vein. All of this additional information
may have important therapeutic implications.
Unfortunately,
prospective,
randomized
studies
comparing a HHD examination with DUS examination
have not been performed since DUS examination
became the standard of care in the 1980s. However, the
studies in this current systematic review do conﬁrm
that DUS examination provides more objective, reproducible information for treatment and is more useful
regarding the location of superﬁcial reﬂux, the extent of
the reﬂux, the size of the reﬂuxing vein throughout its
course, the depth of the entire vein, and whether it is
above or below the superﬁcial fascia. It is also reproducible and reviewable for physicians who do not perform
their own diagnostic venous studies and use an
accredited vascular laboratory.

Of the studies reported, one study24 compared DUS
examination with HHD examination. The study demonstrated that the sensitivity of the HHD technique was
73% at the SFJ, 77% at the SPJ, and 51% for thigh perforators. In patients with primary varicose veins, a surgical
treatment plan using a HHD examination would have
left residual sites of reﬂux in 24%. The study concluded
that examination with HHD examination is not sufﬁciently accurate to plan varicose vein surgery; the authors
suggested DUS scanning.24 The second prospective
study25 compared DUS examination with HHD examination complemented by a physical examination. The
study demonstrated that the accuracy of HHD examination was only 71% in the SFJ; however, in assessing 90% of
limbs, DUS examination did not affect surgical management. Nevertheless, it should be noted that a DUS examination is performed routinely during endovenous
procedures, which allows a surgeon to modify their
approach, even when a preprocedure study is inaccurate.
Four other diagnostic studies121-124 did not meet the
eligibility criteria of deﬁning retrograde ﬂow in the GSV