completing this traditional 5 þ 2 pathway, the trainee is
eligible for board certiﬁcation in both general surgery
and vascular surgery by the ABS. Although the ABS
initially required board certiﬁcation in general surgery
before board certiﬁcation in vascular surgery, an ABS
policy enacted in 2012 now requires that the candidate
have only an approved application for the general surgery qualifying examination for eligibility for vascular
surgery boards (www.absurgery.org).
2. Integrated pathway. The integrated pathway, also
referred to as a 0 þ 5 pathway, is geared to medical
students who have decided on a career in vascular
surgery, participate in the main National Resident
Matching Program during medical school,3 and
match into vascular surgery training to begin immediately after graduation from medical school. The integrated pathway was ﬁrst approved in 2006 by the
ABS and eliminated the need for board certiﬁcation
in general surgery before board certiﬁcation in
vascular surgery by establishment of a primary board
certiﬁcate in vascular surgery. Two years are devoted
to core surgical training and 3 years to vascular surgery training, all of which must be completed at the
same institution.3 The ACGME requires that residents
in an integrated program complete a minimum of
500 total operative procedures and 250 major
vascular reconstructions. On completion of the 5year training program, these trainees are eligible for
board certiﬁcation by the ABS only in vascular surgery.
This integrated pathway has become increasingly
popular among applicants, and there are presently
50 such training programs participating with the
Electronic Residency Application Service. Certain
institutions offer both 5 þ 2 and 0 þ 5 pathways.
3. Early specialization pathway. This pathway requires
4 years of general surgery residency and 2 years of

vascular surgery residency at the same institution
and enables the trainees to obtain ABS certiﬁcation
in both general surgery and vascular surgery. Only
three programs currently offer an early specialization
pathway. Trainees must complete a minimum of
850 total operative procedures and 250 major
vascular reconstructions during these 6 years.

The ABS requires that all training programs in vascular
surgery must be accredited by the ACGME through the
Residency Review Committee for Surgery