 have been given

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

equal weight in determining a composite end point to test
overall efficacy.
Data from CREST,9 however, indicate that stroke has a
more significant effect on quality of life at 1 year than
nonfatal MI. Because the primary goal of intervention in
carotid stenosis is stroke prevention, in developing its recommendations, the committee placed more emphasis on
the prevention of stroke and procedurally related death
than the occurrence of periprocedural MI. This may result
in committee recommendations that differ from the published results of some trials where these three end points
were given equal weight in analysis.
Treatment is chosen based on the assessment of risk
associated with intervention and the likelihood that a particular intervention will favorably alter the course of the
disease. The major determinants of the clinical course of
patients with carotid bifurcation stenosis are the presence
or absence of neurologic symptoms and the degree of
carotid bifurcation stenosis. The threat of stroke in asymptomatic patients with ⬍60% ICA stenosis and in symptomatic patients with 50% stenosis is generally considered to be
small and does not warrant intervention. ECST and
NASCET2-4 demonstrated that CEA was unable to reduce
the subsequent neurologic event rates in patients with
symptoms of cerebral ischemia and bifurcation stenosis of
⬍50% diameter reduction and was actually associated with
increased morbidity compared with medical management.
Stenoses of ⬍60% diameter reduction were excluded from
the asymptomatic studies,5,6 assuming that asymptomatic
patients with stenosis ⬍60% would not benefit from carotid
reconstruction. Given the findings of the symptomatic trials, this proved to be an appropriate decision. There have
been no studies supporting either CEA or CAS for this
cohort of patients.16
A. Assessing the risk associated with intervention
CEA and CAS are each associated with specific clinical
scenarios that increase their respective risks. This section
provides information to identify conditions that pose an
increased risk for CAS or CEA and thereby help select the
most appropriate therapy. When the risk of intervention is
sufficiently increased due to the