osis and the associated cost, hospitalization, morbidity, and burdens and lower values on inconvenience and cost of surveillance and monitoring. In
addition, considering the low costs and harms associated
with clinical monitoring, access flow, and static dialysis
venous pressure measurements, we suggested these methods for routine surveillance to detect access dysfunction,
reserving DU scans for patients with accesses that show
symptoms and signs suggestive of impending access failure.
In these patients, the benefits of imaging studies are likely
to outweigh the potential burden and cost.82,83
5.3. Technical remarks
Assessing functionality of AV access. Various methods can be used to assess the functionality of AV accesses.
They range from clinical physical evaluation to invasive
contrast procedures. This will be discussed in the section
below, which addresses available methods used to detect or
confirm access dysfunction.
Access assessment and clinical monitoring. A. Assessment of the new access. Prosthetic AV accesses, such as PTFE
grafts, can be cannulated as early as 2 weeks after their
construction, provided that they have a bruit, the postoperative edema has resolved, and there is no evidence of
infection. However, the clinical assessment of new autogenous access requires considerable experience in interpreting
visual, auditory, and tactile clues. A normal autogenous
access has a soft pulse that is easily compressible and a

14S Sidawy et al

continuous low-pitched bruit. A thrill should be palpable
near the anastomosis and extend along the vein outflow for
a varying distance. In addition, a normal autogenous access
collapses when the extremity is elevated. Clinical clues of a
stenosis of an autogenous AV access include the presence of
a palpable pulse at the arterial end with possible faint thrill
or complete access collapse proximally, a discontinuous
bruit, or failure to collapse with arm elevation. The physical
examination can be used to estimate access diameter, its
depth from the skin, the presence of collateral veins and the
presence of accessory veins.
If upon clinical evaluation at 4 to 6 weeks the autogenous access is not clearly maturing adequately, further
investigation is warranted to identify potentially remediable
anatomic lesions. These may include a venous or arterial
stenosis, competing veins, large patent branches, or excessive depth from the skin