operative day 14 to decrease the risk of overwhelming
postsplenectomy sepsis due to organisms such as
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus inﬂuenzae
type B, and Neisseria meningitidis. Patients undergoing elective repair of SAA who are at risk of splenic
loss if the splenic artery cannot be preserved
with planned embolization or with known preoperative anatomic challenges to stent grafting that
could lead to fallback embolization should be
considered for vaccination at least 14 days BEFORE
intervention.

4. Screening
Recommendations for screening of patients with SAA
Recommendation
4.1

We suggest screening of patients with SAAs for other intra-abdominal, intrathoracic,
intracranial, and peripheral artery aneurysms.

The immediate beneﬁts associated with endovascular
intervention include local anesthesia, shorter hospital
stay, and faster recovery. Drawbacks to endovascular
therapy include end-organ embolization and a relatively higher rate of failure compared with open surgery. Last, patients with splenic artery ablation for
SAA can develop postembolization syndrome with
ongoing pain, fevers, and other systemic symptoms.
Complete exclusion of ﬂow within the aneurysm sac
occurred in 97% of interventions with follow-up imaging in the Cleveland Clinic experience. In the Mayo
Clinic experience, initial intervention was successful
98% of the time. Coiling was used alone in 75% of
the cases and in combination with at least one other
technique in 11% of cases.
The risk of end-organ ischemia appears to be an especially salient concern pertaining to endovascular repair.
Some authors have concluded that patients with aneurysmal disease at the splenic hilum may be better
managed with open repair and splenectomy.105
A study using a Markov decision model compared open
surgery vs endovascular repair vs conservative therapy for
a patient with SAA.106 Endovascular repair was found to
be associated with highest quality of life and to be the
most cost-effective strategy for most groups, and it was

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

SAAs may be multiple and