% of patients undergoing CAS. Patients typically present with
headache. Diagnosis can be made on CT imaging
revealing ipsilateral cerebral edema without any evidence of stroke. Treatment is largely supportive, focusing
on controlling blood pressure and maintaining adequate
cerebral perfusion. Additional details concerning management of hyperperfusion syndrome are discussed in
other sections of these guidelines.
Summary and recommendations for treatment of
stroke after CAS.
Acute CAS complication.
1. Stroke owing to MCA occlusion owing to embolization after CAS should be treated with mechanical
thrombectomy and thrombolysis.
2. Acute carotid stent occlusion should be treated with
immediate recanalization and cerebral angiography
with potential mechanical thrombectomy and
thrombolysis, which may include thrombus aspiration
and ﬁlter removal.
3. Aggressive post-PTA should be avoided when
possible to decrease hemodynamic depression and
the risk of stroke.
Hemodynamic instability: Post-CEA hypertension and
hypotension
Blood pressure instability after CEA is a risk factor for cerebrovascular and cardiovascular complications.323 Carotid baroreceptors are mainly localized in the
adventitial layer of the proximal ICA,323,426 and these receptors play a signiﬁcant role in moderating increases
and decreases in blood pressure.427 Denervation of the
carotid sinus nerve during CEA can signiﬁcantly increase
risk of postoperative hypertension.323 Hypertension in the
postoperative period is much more common than hypotension. ECEA has been shown to increase risk of hypertension, while CCEA may increase overall risk of
hypotension.323
Hemodynamic instability is common after CEA, and
can result either from signiﬁcant cardiac-related complications or, more commonly, from disordered baroreceptor function.417 Both hypertension and hypotension
can
be
associated
with
impaired
clinical
outcome.227,323,428,429 Hypotension is less common and
is often accompanied by bradycardia. Removal of

66S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

plaque from the carot