
Recommendation
3.1

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1 (Strong)

B (High)

We recommend an endovascular-ﬁrst approach to all SMAAs if it is
anatomically feasible.

Treatment must be individualized on the basis of anatomy and characteristics of the SMAA. Angiography is critical to delineate superior mesenteric artery anatomy and
collaterals. Both open and endovascular techniques
must exclude the aneurysm and maintain patency of
the vessels. Endovascular procedures are signiﬁcantly
less morbid than open procedures and should be preferentially offered if it is anatomically feasible. Endovascular
interventions include coil embolization and use of
covered stents,176 with good results.
The signiﬁcant issue with endovascular repair is that
SMAA beyond the proximal few centimeters will include
major tributaries that must be preserved. Sacriﬁce of
these vessels during an endovascular approach will
lead to signiﬁcant morbidity. In such cases, when an
endovascular approach leads to signiﬁcant loss of collaterals, strong consideration should be given to open
repair. Open repair options include open surgical procedures such as simple ligation of aneurysm, aneurysmorrhaphy in case of saccular aneurysms, and repair
with an interposition graft. Open resection may require
intestinal resection, particularly in symptomatic patients.
Close observation for occurrence of peritoneal symptoms
is essential after either type of repair.

the context of larger series on visceral aneurysms. We
recommend CTA as the diagnostic modality of choice
for these aneurysms; often in asymptomatic patients,
this modality identiﬁes a visceral branch aneurysm incidentally.99,178,179 MRA may also be considered. Axial imaging of the abdomen will facilitate the assessment of
other abdominal aneurysms, which are common as
referenced before. Arteriography is invaluable for aneurysm identiﬁcation preoperatively and in operative planning, and it is mandatory for patients with polyarteritis
nodosa to assess for additional aneurysms.180
Aneurysms of the jejunal