
causing nephrogenic systemic ﬁbrosis. In addition, MRA
cannot be used in patients with pacemakers and a variety
of other implanted medical devices.
Duplex ultrasound arterial examination is most
commonly used as a screening modality to conﬁrm the diagnosis and to determine the severity of disease both before
and after treatment. It is occasionally used as a primary imaging modality during EVT, principally in the setting of isolated focal disease in the superﬁcial femoral artery (SFA).133
For patients with severe infrainguinal disease, assessment
of available vein conduit is another important element in the
decision process, given the superiority of good-quality
saphenous vein for femoropopliteal (FP) bypass. Ultrasound
vein mapping is therefore recommended as part of the preoperative evaluation of patients who are being considered as
potential open bypass candidates (see below).
Aortoiliac occlusive disease
AIOD, or inﬂow disease, most commonly leads to
buttock and thigh claudication. In men, bilateral iliac artery
involvement or occlusion of the internal iliac arteries may be
a cause of vasculogenic erectile dysfunction. With continued
walking, it is not uncommon for patients with AIOD to also
develop claudication in the calf muscles. With bilateral disease, symptoms can be quite severe and disabling due to
the large number of muscle groups being affected.
Invasive treatments for AIOD are performed to provide symptom relief and functional improvements. The
one scenario where treatment of asymptomatic AIOD

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 17S

Recommendations: General considerations on invasive treatment for intermittent claudication (IC)

5.1.

5.2.

We recommend EVT or surgical treatment of IC for patients with signiﬁcant functional or
lifestyle-limiting disability when there is a reasonable likelihood of symptomatic improvement
with treatment, when pharmacologic or exercise therapy, or both, have failed, and when the
beneﬁts of treatment outweigh the potential risks.
We recommend an individualized approach to select an invasive treatment for IC. The modality
offered should provide a reasonable likelihood of sustained beneﬁt to the patient (>50%
likelihood of clinical efﬁcacy for