 whether aneurysmal
degeneration results in thrombus formation or if
thrombus formation is responsible for the development
of aneurysmal dilation. As such, surgical treatment determined by the presence of thrombus alone might lead to
unjustiﬁable interventions.
Thrombus presence paired with impaired runoff, regardless of aneurysm diameter, however, might be a better
marker to identify higher risk PAAs. Microembolism from
the aneurysm can be responsible for blue toe syndrome,
and such patients have a high risk of new arterial emboli,
even after successful conservative treatment of the ﬁrst
event. Insidious microemboli can silently, yet signiﬁcantly,
compromise arterial runoff, with detrimental effects on
the outcomes of subsequent interventions. Dawson
et al,20 in a retrospective study of 42 patients, demonstrated an increased risk of complications for patients
with a PAA and no distal pulses compared with those
with pulses present. These investigators suggested that
such patients should not be classiﬁed as asymptomatic
and should be considered for intervention.20
Recommendation 4: For asymptomatic patients with
a life expectancy of $5 years, we suggest open PAA
repair, provided that an adequate saphenous vein is
present. For patients with a diminished life expectancy, if intervention is indicated, endovascular repair
should be considered (grade 2C).
Treatment of patients with an asymptomatic PAA
should be directed toward the reduction of thrombotic
sequelae related to PAAs. In these patients, the exclusion of the PAA from the circulation should be the
main aim of therapy. This objective can be achieved using either OPAR or EPAR. For OPAR, exclusion requires
bypass with interval proximal and distal ligation of the
aneurysm sac. For EPAR, exclusion is accomplished by
sealing off the aneurysm with an endograft. Although
a paucity of adequately powered level 1 prospective
data is available comparing these two modalities,
several studies have reported better long-term outcomes (ie, better patency and fewer major adverse
limb events) after OPAR, especially if a single-segment
GSV was used for the arterial bypass.32,34-39 Given these
observations regarding the better long