 endovascular therapy
will become increasingly clear. The scheme would need

to correlate with outcomes and not practice patterns. We
envision that clinical decision making and outcomes
comparisons between alternative treatments would be facilitated by deﬁning subgroups of patients across three
distinct coordinatesdlimb severity (SVS WIfI), patient
risk (comorbidity index), and anatomic severity. Such
a properly stratiﬁed, three-dimensional matrix would lead
to improved clinical trial designs73 and ultimately better
evidence-based care for patients with chronic lower
extremity ischemia and/or tissue compromise.
Finally, attention should be directed toward redeﬁning
outcomes. Patency, limb salvage, and amputation-free
survival are not the only criteria for success. The SVS has
initiated this process with the publication of objective performance goals.74 Many authors have also begun to examine
what outcomes would look like from a patient-centered viewpoint (ie, functional outcome).29,75-88 However, these
outcome measures will only prove applicable if the initial
disease burden has been adequately characterized and
stratiﬁed.
The authors wish to gratefully acknowledge the efforts
of Thomas Biester and Andrew Jones (psychometricians at
the American Board of Surgery) for performing the ICC
statistics, as well as the following members of the SVS
Lower Extremity Guidelines Committee and other invited
limb salvage experts for reviewing the basis for this document during its conception and preparation and for
contributing to the Delphi Consensus process: Daniel
Clair, Jack Cronenwett, Patrick J. Geraghty, Robert Hinchliffe, James F. McKinsey, Gregory L. Moneta, Richard
J. Powell, Amy B. Reed and Spence M. Taylor.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: JM, MC, DA, ANS, GA
Analysis and interpretation: JM, MC, DA, FP, AS, ANS,
GA
Data collection: JM, MC, DA
Writing the article: JM, MC
Critical revision of the article: JM, MC, DA, FP, AS, ANS,
GA
Final approval of the article: JM, MC, DA, FP, AS, ANS,
GA
Statistical analysis: JM
Obtained funding: Not applicable
Overall responsibility: JM