.
Summary and recommendations. There is insufﬁcient
evidence to recommend routine use of completion imaging after CEA.
Management of carotid coils and kinks
In the absence of signiﬁcant stenosis, management of
patients with ICA coils and kinks remains controversial.
Incidental coils and kinks are found in up to 16% of patients, and one-half will have histologic features consistent with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia. One randomized trial
compared surgical correction and medical therapy in
182 patients with hemispheric/nonhemispheric symptoms in an isolated coil and kink in the ICA. At a mean
follow-up of almost 6 years, patients randomized to surgical correction had 0% risk of occlusion compared with
5.5% of those randomized to medical treatment (P ¼
.002). Late stroke was 0% in surgically treated patients
compared with 6.6% in medically treated patients (P ¼
.01). Unfortunately, 41% of the medical patients crossed
over to surgical treatment because of recurrent hemispheric or ongoing nonhemispheric symptoms, thus

making interpretation difﬁcult.343 Despite these data, it
is difﬁcult to recommend operative therapy of asymptomatic patients with kinks or coils other than how clinicians
would
normally
treat
their
underling
hemodynamically signiﬁcant atherosclerotic disease.
Summary and recommendations.
1. Surgical intervention for asymptomatic isolated coils
or kinks of the ICA is not recommended.
2. Symptomatic patients with isolated coils and kinks
may be considered for surgical correction but only after all other etiologies for TIA or stroke symptoms can
be identiﬁed.

TIMING OF CAROTID INTERVENTION IN STROKE
Acute stroke. See the Clinical Practice Guidelines
document.3
Stroke in evolution. Stroke in evolution is a clinical syndrome that has been characterized as an evolving neurologic condition associated with an acute precipitating
neurologic event. In these situations, initial medical management of stroke including antiplatelet therapy, volume
support and blood pressure management has not succeeded in stabilizing the patient’s neurologic outcome,
which may wax and wane over the early course of the
presentation. Patients may never return to normal and
their neurologic