 recertifying examination in the physician’s specialty within 10 years
Completion of MOC
Outcome analysis based on regional or local registries
Passing the RPVI examination or appropriate CME in the noninvasive vascular laboratory
ABS, American Board of Surgery; ACGME, Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education; CME, continuing medical education; MOC,
Maintenance of Certiﬁcation; RPVI, Registered Physician in Vascular Interpretation; SVS, Society for Vascular Surgery; VQI, Vascular Quality Initiative.

basis of maintenance of board certiﬁcation and MOC
requirements.
Credentialing committees in each hospital should
deﬁne case volumes and outcomes for recredentialing.
Renewal of privileges in vascular surgery and endovascular procedures for surgeons and other interventionalists
who already have privileges to perform these procedures
should be granted on the basis of an analysis of their
patient outcomes in comparison to local, regional, and
national standards. The SVS strongly encourages hospitals
and their credentialing bodies to have access to a
nationally validated registry of vascular surgery and endovascular procedures for all physicians performing these
procedures, regardless of the physician’s specialty or the
location where they are performed (eg, cardiac catheterization laboratory, interventional radiology suite, and
hybrid or conventional vascular operating rooms). The
SVS endorses participation in the Vascular Quality Initiative (VQI; www.vascularqualityinitiative.org) to improve
regional benchmarking by assessing the quality, safety,
effectiveness, and cost of vascular procedures. By collecting, analyzing, and sharing data on preprocedure risk factors, intraprocedural variables, postprocedural outcomes,
and 1-year follow-up data, outcome analysis can be performed. The SVS recommends that a procedure not reported in the VQI or other validated registries should not
be referred to in terms of establishing minimum numbers
for privileges but instead be reviewed with the goal being
to demonstrate competent decision-making.
The SVS also endorses Ongoing Professional Practice
Evaluation and Focused Professional Practice Evaluation
processes as directed by The Joint Commission for
newly credentialed physicians, newly credentialed
procedures, and physician probationary periods (www.
jointcommission.org). Ongoing Professional Practice
Evaluation can be used as a performance enhancement

tool to avoid adverse outcomes. Quality measures