SPECIAL COMMUNICATION

Management of atherosclerotic carotid artery
disease: Clinical practice guidelines of the Society
for Vascular Surgery
Robert W. Hobson, II, MD,a,* William C. Mackey, MD,b Enrico Ascher, MD,c M. Hassan Murad, MD,g
Keith D. Calligaro, MD,e Anthony J. Comerota, MD,f Victor M. Montori, MD,g Mark K. Eskandari, MD,h
Douglas W. Massop, MD,i Ruth L. Bush, MD,j Brajesh K. Lal, MD,k and Bruce A. Perler, MD,l Newark, NJ;
Boston, Mass; Brooklyn, NY; Rochester, Minn; Philadelphia, Pa; Toledo, Ohio; Chicago, Ill; Des Moines, Iowa; College
Station, Tex; and Baltimore, Md
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) appointed a committee of experts to formulate evidence-based clinical guidelines
for the management of carotid stenosis. In formulating clinical practice recommendations, the committee used systematic
reviews to summarize the best available evidence and the GRADE scheme to grade the strength of recommendations
(GRADE 1 for strong recommendations; GRADE 2 for weak recommendations) and rate the quality of evidence (high,
moderate, low, and very low quality). In symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with low-grade carotid stenosis (<50%
in symptomatic and <60% in asymptomatic patients), we recommend optimal medical therapy rather than revascularization (GRADE 1 recommendation, high quality evidence). In symptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid
stenosis (more than 50%), we recommend carotid endarterectomy plus optimal medical therapy (GRADE 1 recommendation,
high quality evidence). In symptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis (>50%) and high perioperative risk,
we suggest carotid artery stenting as a potential alternative to carotid endarterectomy (GRADE 2 recommendation, low
quality evidence). In asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis (>60%), we recommend carotid
endarterectomy plus medical management as long as the perioperative risk is low (GRADE 1 recommendation, high
quality evidence). We recommend against carotid artery stenting for asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe
