 be screened for carotid
disease. In terms of treatment, an important question is
under which circumstances to use these treatment
options, particularly as it relates to whether the patient
is symptomatic or not. The issue of optimal timing of carotid intervention after acute stroke is equally important.
In patients with combined coronary and carotid disease,
the optimal sequence for intervention is also unclear.
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) has determined
this topic to be in need for updated clinical practice
guidelines and identiﬁed several decision-making
dilemmas that patients and surgeons face in practice.
To support the guideline development process and summarize the evidence base, we conducted this systematic
review and meta-analysis.

METHODS
This report was written in accordance with the PRISMA
statement.3 The speciﬁc questions of this review and the
explicit inclusion and exclusion criteria were developed
by a committee from the SVS charged with developing
clinical practice guidelines on the management of carotid disease.
Eligibility criteria. The committee prioritized ﬁve questions, which are presented using the PICO format (patient, intervention, comparison, outcomes) along with
the eligibility criteria in the Table. The ﬁve questions
addressed medical management vs carotid revascularization (CEA) in asymptomatic patients, CEA vs CAS in
symptomatic low surgical risk patients, the optimal
timing of revascularization after acute stroke, screening
high-risk patients for carotid disease, and the optimal
sequence of interventions in patients with combined
coronary and carotid disease.
Data sources and search strategies. The search strategy ﬁrst identiﬁed existing systematic reviews to determine the feasibility and the approach for the project.
When a high credibility review was identiﬁed, we
updated the review. Dedicated searches for original
studies were then designed for each question. The databases included MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Central

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Hasan et al

101S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Register of Controlled Trials, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Scopus. Searches were completed
in August 2019 for questions 1 and 3, and in July 2019 for
questions 2, 4, and 5. The search strategy was