
aid in assessing wound biology and the physiologic impact
of wound and venous disease therapy are needed. The role
of outﬂow imaging for patients with suspected iliocaval stenosis/occlusion requires further development. Additional
validation of venous disease and wound classiﬁcation systems
and quality outcome measures is needed to allow better
comparative analysis evidence of therapeutic modalities.
Wound Care. The wound care ﬁeld continues to
evolve and expand. Drivers include an aging society,
increasing prevalence of obesity and other comorbid

46S O’Donnell et al

conditions, and an ever-expanding therapeutic arsenal of
new treatment technologies. The current VLU guidelines
address the most important clinical issues surrounding
advanced wound care, including wound bed preparation,
control of bacterial colonization and infection, and
débridement techniques and frequency, which are all critical to achieving healing outcomes. Novel diagnostic
methods under development for the rapid identiﬁcation
of bacteria and inﬂammatory cytokine levels will likely
result in the need for additional comparative effectiveness
research in the near future for clinicians to decide on best
practice options. Use of these diagnostic modalities may
allow patient-speciﬁc therapeutics to enhance the potential
for rapid wound healing.
A broad range of therapeutic modalities employing
various forms of electromagnetic energy transfer may be
used adjunctively for the healing of chronic wounds.
Currently, there is a lack of standardization concerning energy settings, treatment frequency, and methods of energy
delivery, making ﬁrm recommendations difﬁcult. There are
more treatments under evaluation presently, with some
methods combining energy sources. These data will need
to be evaluated in future updates. Last, there has been
recent expansion of cellular and acellular biologic dressings.
These products can be human or animal derived and come
in myriad formats. Currently, there are no comparative
effectiveness studies available to help guide the clinician
to make appropriate decisions on use of these products. Evidence in this expanding ﬁeld will need to be evaluated so
that populations of patients who would beneﬁt the most
from speciﬁc tissue products can be identiﬁed. A signiﬁcant
role for patient-centered outcomes measures also needs to
be incorporated into trial design in the future. The patient’s preferences will need to be balanced with clinical efﬁcacy