2 (weak); quality
of evidence: C (low).
5.2. In patients with severe (70%-99%) bilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis or severe asymptomatic stenosis and contralateral occlusion, we suggest CEA
before, or concomitant with, CABG. Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C
(low).
5.3. In patients requiring carotid intervention, staged or
synchronous with coronary intervention, we suggest
that the decision between CEA and CAS be determined by the timing of procedure, the need for anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, patient anatomy, and
patient characteristics. Level of recommendation:
grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
Management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease
has been the focus of intense investigation and debate
by multiple vascular specialists since the introduction
of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) as a therapeutic modality for the prevention and treatment of stroke more than
several decades earlier. The initial hopes that CEA could
reverse the clinical course of stroke were proved false,
and the role of surgical treatment of extracranial carotid
and vertebral artery disease was deﬁned by the results of
the multicenter randomized clinical trial, the Joint Study
on the Extracranial Circulation.1 That study of 5000 patients established the role of CEA in the treatment of minor stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA), and amaurosis
fugax and conﬁrmed that surgery has a role in the treatment of established stroke, with a limited role for vertebral reconstruction in the treatment of cerebrovascular
insufﬁciency. However, during the subsequent decades,
with surgical reﬁnements to CEA and the increasing
detection of asymptomatic carotid stenosis identiﬁed using noninvasive vascular studies, CEA assumed a primarily prophylactic role for prevention of major stroke in
asymptomatic patients and those with evidence of transient cerebral or ocular ischemia. Large prospective, randomized trials have established the role and efﬁcacy of
CEA in stroke prevention.2-6
During the past two decades, carotid artery stenting
(CAS) has also evolved as a catheter-based alternative
to C