 down through a small incision made
below the knee. Alternatively, an Oesch PIN stripper can be
used.168,169 Saphenous stripping below the knee is rarely
performed today because of an increased incidence of reported saphenous nerve injury.165 To decrease bleeding in
the saphenous tunnel after stripping, we suggest that the

22S Gloviczki et al

perisaphenous space be infiltrated with tumescent anesthetic solution.
The operation is usually completed with a miniphlebectomy to remove the bulging varicose veins through a small
stab wound. The incisions are then infiltrated with tumescent solutions, the groin incision is closed in layers with
nonadsorbable sutures, and the stab wounds are closed
with sterile adhesive strips. The extremity is bandaged with
an elastic bandage to decrease the risk of bleeding and to
decrease swelling and pain. The operation is an outpatient
procedure.
High ligation, division, and stripping of the SSV.
Complete stripping of the SSV is rarely performed today
because of possible injury to the sural nerve, but ligation of
the SSV through a small transverse incision in the popliteal
crease can be performed together with a limited invagination stripping of the vein to the mid calf, using the same
technique described for GSV stripping. The safest technique to identify the SSV is intraoperative duplex scanning.
There is no evidence that flush ligation is better than simple
ligation of the vein when performed at a location closer to
the skin, usually right in the knee crease. We recommend
ligation of the SSV at this level, about 3 to 5 cm distal to the
saphenopopliteal junction, since this can be performed
through a very small skin incision and it avoids the need for
deep dissection in the popliteal fossa, with the potential for
associated wound complications or nerve injury.
Cryostripping of the GSV. To decrease hemorrhage
within the saphenous tunnel and avoid any incision placed
at the level of the knee, the technique of cryostripping has
been suggested by some investigators.179 Cryostripping is
an alternative method to invagination stripping.180 The