 of the patient. As a result, a
voluminous and often conflicting literature has developed
around the current standards of diagnosis and management
of extracranial carotid stenosis. Recently two large, prospective, randomized trials have been published comparing
the efficacy of CEA and CAS in the management of extracranial carotid stenosis.9,10 A meta-analysis comparing
CAS and CEA, including these trials has recently been
published in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.11
In 2008, the Society for Vascular Surgery published
clinical practice guidelines for the management of extracranial carotid artery disease in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.12 More recently, a multispecialty document has been
published on the “Management of Patients with Extracranial Carotid and Vertebral Artery Disease.”13 This extensive document represents an effort to evaluate the existing
literature on extracranial carotid and vertebral disease and is
an important reference.
The data contained in the recently published randomized trials has prompted the Society for Vascular Surgery to
publish an update of its 2008 guidelines, confined to management of extracranial carotid artery disease. This is particularly appropriate because vascular surgeons play a major
if not predominant role in the management of patients with
carotid bifurcation disease.
In developing these recommendations, the committee
placed more weight on the reduction of stroke and death
and less on the importance of nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI). Because the latter end point often represents the
main benefit of CAS, the recommendations in this document are more circumspect with regard to the role of CAS
and more supportive of the role of CEA than the recom-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

mendations of the American Heart Association (AHA)
guidelines committee. This document is divided into six
major sections:
I. Indications for imaging of the extracranial circulation
II. Selection of imaging modality
III. The importance of medical therapy in the overall
management of patients with carotid stenosis, including medical management in the peri-intervention period.
IV. Technical considerations for performing CEA and
CAS
V. The relative roles of medical management, CEA and
CAS