 MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Central

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Hasan et al

101S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Register of Controlled Trials, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Scopus. Searches were completed
in August 2019 for questions 1 and 3, and in July 2019 for
questions 2, 4, and 5. The search strategy was designed
and conducted by medical reference librarians with
input from the investigators. Controlled vocabulary supplemented with key words was used to search for studies
of interest without language restrictions. The actual strategy listing all search terms used and how they are combined is available in the Appendix (online only).
Study selection and data extraction. Studies obtained
by the search strategies, reference mining of systematic
reviews, and those suggested by the committee were
reviewed independently by two reviewers. We ﬁrst
reviewed abstracts and in a second phase we reviewed
full-text articles if included or had a conﬂict at the abstract level. Data from included studies were abstracted
by pairs of independent reviewers using different standardized piloted Excel sheets for each question. Disagreements were resolved via consensus.
We extracted data on patient characteristics (eg number of patients, mean age, gender, mean body mass index, comorbidities, and details of medical therapy) and
outcomes of interest (stroke, ipsilateral stroke, death,
myocardial infarction [MI], cerebral hemorrhage, cerebral hyperperfusion, and prevalence of >50% carotid
stenosis).
Methodologic quality and certainty of the evidence.
The risk of bias in the included studies was assessed by
two independent reviewers. This task was carried out using a standardized form based on the Newcastle Ottawa
scale for observational studies4 and the Cochrane tool for
risk of bias assessment of randomized controlled trials
(RCTs).5 For uncontrolled studies, we used an adaptation
of the Newcastle Ottawa scale.6 Any discrepancy between a pair of reviewers was solved by consensus or by a
third reviewer. We rated the certainty of evidence using
the GRADE approach7 as adapted by the SVS.8,9 We
considered an estimate to be imprecise if its conﬁdence
interval (CI) overlapped both, beneﬁts and harms.10
Statistical