 a nonsignificant trend towards fewer events in the surgical group (RR 0.92, 95% CI
0.83 to 1.02).
The exclusion criteria for ACAS and ACST were similar
to those for NASCET, and participating surgeons in both
studies were preselected for good surgical results. The
application of our recommendation to excluded groups,

The committee placed a relatively higher value on
preventing the outcome of stroke with the associated disability and morbidity and a relatively lower value on avoiding the downsides of endarterectomy (cost, perioperative
complications such as death and myocardial infarction).

may show additional luminal recruitment over time. Finally, the EPD is removed over a retrieval catheter. The
completion angiogram must visualize the extra- and intracranial circulation in two or more views. The sheath is
removed when the ACT is ⱕ150 seconds; arterial closure
devices can be used to obviate the need for normalization of
the ACT. Patients are placed on clopidogrel for at least 4
weeks and on aspirin indefinitely.
RECOMMENDATION

RECOMMENDATION
We recommend against carotid artery stenting for asymptomatic patients with carotid artery stenosis. (GRADE 1, low
quality evidence).
Evidence
Paucity of evidence hampers the evaluation of carotid
artery stenting in the management of patients with asymptomatic carotid disease. No RCTs have been published comparing
carotid stenting with medical management in asymptomatic
patients. In terms of comparing stenting with endarterectomy
in asymptomatic patients, the systematic review by Murad et
al20 included two trials that reported this comparison.5,27
There were insufficient data to evaluate the effect of therapy
on individual outcomes. The effect of therapy on the composite outcome of death, stroke, and nonfatal myocardial infarction was very imprecise (RR0.52; 95% CI 0.20 to 1.33) due to
the small number of patients (323) and events (18). All the
events were in the SAPHIRE trial whereas Brooks et al did not

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 2

