The RRC has established minimum criteria for major
vascular reconstructive procedures performed by
vascular surgery trainees (https://www.acgme.org/
Portals/0/VS_CatMins.pdf). The required numbers are
250 major vascular cases for all vascular surgery trainees,
regardless of whether they participate in the traditional
(5 þ 2), early specialization (4 þ 2), or integrated (0 þ 5)
programs. These cases should reﬂect an adequate representation of current practice as well as breadth and balance of experience in the surgical care of vascular
diseases. Although these numbers are continually subject to change, the minimum criteria for vascular procedures currently include 30 abdominal vascular
procedures, 25 cerebrovascular, 45 peripheral, and 10
complex vascular reconstructions (Table I).
Noninvasive vascular laboratory diagnosis requirements. Vascular surgery training programs must
include training in noninvasive vascular laboratory studies.
To interpret these studies, a graduating trainee must
demonstrate knowledge of vascular anatomy and
physiology, as well as ultrasound physics, through the
interpretation of noninvasive vascular studies. As suggested by the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission
(previously the Intersocietal Commission for the Accreditation of Vascular Laboratories), a minimum number of
supervised interpreted studies during postgraduate
training are required for individuals desiring to apply for
privileges in interpretation of speciﬁc individual areas of
the vascular laboratory7 (Table II). Not all individuals
interpreting vascular laboratory studies will wish to interpret studies in all the areas of the vascular laboratory or
will be qualiﬁed to interpret studies in all areas outlined
before. Individuals3 may therefore elect to pursue privileges only in those areas in which they have sufﬁcient
qualiﬁcations and training. The SVS believes that clinical
experience in the treatment of vascular disorders is the

Table II. Intersocietal Accreditation Committee guidelines for supervised interpreted studies
Peripheral arterial physiologic test, 100
Peripheral arterial duplex scanning, 100
d Peripheral venous duplex scanning, 100
d Carotid duplex scanning, 100
d Transcranial duplex/Doppler scanning, 100
d Visceral vascular duplex scanning, 75
d
d

other mandatory component of the nonin