 changes in
the velocity criterion caused by the stent itself, and standard
diagnostic criteria do not apply. Artifacts associated with
both CTA and MRA similarly limit the utility of these
techniques in the post-CAS patient. DSA is required to
confirm restenosis after CAS identified by CDUS when
reintervention is contemplated. In contrast, CDUS is sufficient to diagnose and plan therapy for restenosis after
CEA.
● Recommendations for selection of carotid imaging modalities
1. CDUS in an accredited vascular laboratory is the initial
diagnostic imaging of choice for evaluating the severity
of stenosis in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients.
Unequivocal identification of stenosis of 50% to 99% in
neurologically symptomatic patients or 70% to 99% in
asymptomatic patients is sufficient to make a decision
regarding intervention (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A).
2. CDUS in an accredited vascular laboratory is the imaging modality of choice to screen asymptomatic populations at high risk (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
3. When CDUS is nondiagnostic or suggests stenosis of
intermediate severity (50% to 69%) in an asymptomatic
patient, additional imaging with MRA, CTA or DSA
is required before embarking on any intervention
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
4. When evaluation of the vessels proximal or distal to the
cervical carotid arteries is needed for diagnosis or to plan
therapy, imaging with CTA, MRA, or catheter angiography in addition to CDUS is indicated. CTA is preferable to MRI or MRA for delineating calcium. When
there is discordance between two minimally invasive

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

imaging studies (CDUS, MRA, CTA), DSA is indicated
to resolve conflicting results. DSA is generally reserved
for situations where there is inconclusive evidence of
stenosis on less invasive studies or when CAS is planned
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
5. A postoperative DUS study ⱕ30 days is recommended
to assess the status of the endarterectomized vessel. In
