2%), thromboembolic events (63.2%), ICH (13.2%), and miscellaneous
etiologies not directly related to the operated artery
(10.5%).358 Neurologic events that occurred in the initial
24 hours after surgery were signiﬁcantly more likely to
be caused by thromboembolic events, most commonly
related to technical imperfections at the endarterectomy
site. Most patients who experienced early events postoperatively underwent reexploration and intraluminal
thrombus was noted in 83.3% of these cases. After reexploration, there was either complete resolution of, or signiﬁcant improvement in the neurologic deﬁcit that
prompted reexploration.358
Cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome is a rare and potentially fatal cause of perioperative stroke after CEA. It is
characterized by severe ipsilateral headache, seizures,
and possible intracranial hemorrhage.420 A recent analysis showed that the overall risk of this syndrome was
an extremely low 0.18% of 51,001 CEAs.420 However, the
associated mortality was 38.2%. Multivariate analysis
revealed that female sex, recent ipsilateral stroke, and
contralateral stenosis of 70% or greater, postoperative
hypertension and postoperative hypotension were all
independently associated with cerebral hyperperfusion
syndrome, but postoperative blood pressure lability had
the strongest association.420
Summary and recommendations for the management of intraoperative or perioperative stroke with
CEA.
1. If a patient awakens from CEA under general anesthesia with a new focal neurologic deﬁcit related to
the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere, immediate
reopening of the incision and evaluation of the ICA
is indicated.
2. If a patient awakens from CEA under general anesthesia, and reexploration and evaluation of the ICA reveals either thrombosis of the ICA or a technical
deﬁcit, the artery must be reexplored and repaired
as clinically warranted.

3. If technically feasible, a shunt should be inserted carefully and at the appropriate time during reexploration
of the artery for a perioperative stroke to limit the
extent of cerebral ischemia.
