 We suggest that the choice of revascularization for
recurrent stenoses should be similar to the de novo lesions with the endovascular approach recommended
as the initial option and open revascularization

reserved for lesions not amenable to the endovascular
approach. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Rationale and background
Patients may develop recurrent stenoses and/or recurrent symptoms after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI. Indeed, it is well-accepted that
endovascular revascularization is associated with a
higher rate of recurrent stenoses and symptoms. The
clinical presentation can range from high-grade asymptomatic stenoses to AMI with bowel infarction. Unfortunately, the natural history of these recurrent stenoses
and recurrent symptoms remains poorly deﬁned. Patients should be educated about the potential to
develop recurrent symptoms and counseled to seek
medical care at the onset of their symptoms. An
image-based surveillance protocol can help to identify
recurrent stenoses. However, it is not clear that the identiﬁcation of these recurrent lesions and remediation with
either an endovascular or open approach results in
improved outcomes in terms of symptoms, survival,
and/or quality of life. DUS examination is the optimal surveillance imaging study after revascularization although
the criteria for the native arteries tend to overestimate
the degree of stenosis (ie, 70% stenosis in treated arteries
associated with higher PSV and EDV). CTA can help to
conﬁrm or refute the DUS ﬁndings. The management
of signiﬁcant recurrent stenoses, both asymptomatic
and symptomatic, should be the same as outlined for
de novo lesions. Speciﬁcally, patients with recurrent
CMI should undergo revascularization with an
endovascular-ﬁrst approach, regardless of the initial
approach, whereas open revascularization should be
reserved for patients who are not amenable to the endovascular approach. A select group of patients with
asymptomatic recurrent stenosis may also beneﬁt from
reintervention, but the exact indications for such reintervention remain undeﬁned.
Detailed justiﬁcation
Patients who undergo revascularization for MAOD and
CMI are at risk for