.

6. Classification

GRADE of
recommendation

Level of
evidence

1. Strong

1

A. High
quality
B. Moderate
quality
C. Low or very
low quality
A

1

B

2. Weak

6.1
6.2

We recommend that the CEAP classification be used for patients with varicose
veins. The basic CEAP classification is used for clinical practice, and the full
CEAP classification system is used for clinical research.
We recommend that primary venous disorders, including simple varicose
veins, be differentiated from secondary venous insufficiency and from
congenital venous disorders because the three conditions differ in
pathophysiology and management.

The basic CEAP classification is a simplified version,
suitable and easy for office use, and does not have the
details of the comprehensive CEAP classification, which
functions more as a research tool. As discussed in more
detail by Meissner et al,13 for a patient with primary,
symptomatic varicose veins and full saphenous and perforator incompetence (anatomic segments 2, 3, and 18
in Table III) with a small healed venous ulcer and skin
pigmentation, the comprehensive CEAP classification
would be C2,4a,5,SEpAs,p,Pr2,3,18.
Using the basic CEAP, the same patient would be
classified as C5,SEpAs,pPr. In the basic CEAP classification, only the highest score is used to denote the clinical
class and only the main anatomic groups (s, p, and d) are
noted.
The revised format of the classification77 includes two
elements in addition to the C-E-A-P findings: the date of
the examination and the level of the diagnostic evaluation:
Level 1: History, physical examination, Doppler examination (handheld)
Level 2: Noninvasive— duplex scan, plethysmography
Level 3: Invasive or complex evaluation— contrast venography, venous pressure measurements, IVUS, CT
venography, MR venography

The accuracy of the diagnosis increases with the addition of imaging and invasive testing. Recording the date
and method used to confirm the clinical impression can be
added in parentheses after the CEAP recording as follows:
Full form: