 underlying cardiac pathology such as atrial ﬁbrillation. Female sex, age, history
of embolism, and higher B-type natriuretic peptide levels
have been identiﬁed as risk factors for proximal carotid
axis occlusion in patients with atrial ﬁbrillation.481
Acute ICA occlusion is a therapeutic challenge because
of poor neurologic outcome and paucity of effective
therapeutic options.482 Treatment of acute ICA occlusion
needs to be individualized. No large, controlled trials
have examined the efﬁcacy of any treatment approach.
Patients presenting with stroke should be admitted to
a stroke unit. Hypotension should be avoided because
it might severely compromise cerebral perfusion in the
context of ICA occlusion. In contrast, hypertension
should not be corrected in the acute phase unless it is
in a malignant range. Short-term (approximately
6 weeks) anticoagulation with heparin and warfarin followed by antiplatelet drugs might be used to decrease
embolization from the fresh clot. However, evidence for
this strategy is unavailable.482
In patients presenting early (<3 hours) and up to 5 to
6 hours after the onset of stroke with no evidence of cerebral hemorrhage or a large infarction on brain imaging,
intravenous thrombolysis using recombinant tPA may be
considered. Thrombolytic treatment using a combination of intravenous and intra-arterial routes or using the
intra-arterial only route has been reported to be effective

in distal ICA occlusion, particularly when given soon after
the onset of stroke. However, the efﬁcacy of IV tPA has
been debated because it is associated with poor recanalization in the case of large clots and secondary to the
slow distal ﬂow in patients with acute ICA occlusion.475,477,483 Several factors may inﬂuence IV tPA treatment outcomes among patients with ICA occlusion.
First, because the rate of ﬁbrinolysis depends on the pressure gradient to which the clot is exposed, effective delivery and distribution of thrombolytic drug into the clot is
needed to accelerate ﬁbrinolysis.484 Second, the presence of an ipsilateral M