, but a
signiﬁcant increase in myocardial infarction compared with CAS during the ﬁrst 30 days. When the long-term outcome of
transfemoral CAS vs CEA in symptomatic patients were examined using preplanned pooled analysis of individual patient
data from four randomized trials, the risk of death or stroke within 120 days of the index procedure was 5.5% for CEA and
8.7% for CAS, which lends support that, over the long term, CEA has a superior outcome compared with transfemoral
CAS. When managing acute stroke, the comparison of CEA during the ﬁrst 48 hours to that between day 2 and day 14 did
not reveal a statistically signiﬁcant difference on outcomes during the ﬁrst 30 days. Registry data show good results with
CEA performed in the ﬁrst week, but not within the ﬁrst 48 hours. A single risk factor, aside from peripheral artery disease,
was associated with low carotid screening yield. Multiple risk factors greatly increase the yield of screening. Evidence on
the timing of interventions in patients with combined carotid and coronary disease was sparse and imprecise. Patients
without carotid symptoms, who had the carotid intervention ﬁrst, compared with a combined carotid intervention and
coronary artery bypass grafting, had better outcomes.
Conclusions: This updated evidence summary supports the Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice guidelines for
commonly raised clinical scenarios. CEA was superior to medical therapy in the long-term prevention of stroke/death
over medical therapy. CEA was also superior to transfemoral CAS in minimizing long-term stroke/death for symptomatic
low risk surgical patients. CEA should optimally be performed between 2 and 14 days from the onset of acute stroke.
Having multiple risk factors increases the value of carotid screening. (J Vasc Surg 2022;75:99S-108S.)
Keywords: Systematic review; Meta-analysis; Carotid artery disease; Carotid endarterectomy; Carotid artery stenting;
Screening; Management

Extracranial carotid artery disease occurs owing to
progression of atheromatous plaque which mainly affects the carotid bifurcation, and results