ortic occlusions, long
segment occlusions, severe calciﬁcation, tandem lesions, distal lesions, and small diameter vessels. A variety of creative endovascular solutions have been
described to overcome these relative contraindications.
Notably, Sharafuddin et al92 described their experience
with endovascular recanalization of total mesenteric
vessel occlusions and reported that neither the presence of a stump, ostial plaque, extensive calciﬁcation,
recanalization route (ie, intraluminal vs subintimal), occlusion length, nor vessel diameter impacted the procedure success. Their technical success rate was 85%,
but the 1- and 3-year primary patency rates were only
58% and 33%, respectively, and two patients died
from abdominal catastrophes and sepsis at 2 and
23 months. Similarly, Haben et al123 reported that the
total chronic occlusions of the SMA were associated
with decreased patency after endovascular treatment
when compared with stenoses. Longer term data are
required to establish the role of endovascular treatment for these higher risk anatomic lesions, although
it is conceivable that the optimal treatment may be

dictated by the individual provider skill set and patient
compliance with longer term follow-up.
Special discussions
The various treatment recommendations outlined
above may not be relevant for all patient populations,
speciﬁcally the elderly. It is certainly conceivable that
elderly patients (and potentially other groups) respond
differently to the various interventions, similar to carotid
artery stenting. Cardin et al124 did a systematic review
to identify relevant articles for the treatment of CMI in
the elderly ($65 years of age). They were able to identify
only 13 relevant articles and concluded that the management of CMI in the geriatric population is poorly
documented.
Implementation considerations
The recommended endovascular-ﬁrst approach to
revascularization for patients with CMI largely reﬂects
the current national practice although open revascularization should still play a signiﬁcant role and should be
considered within the treatment algorithm. The evolution of the endovascular therapies for CMI (and other
vascular surgical problems) has decreased the overall
number of open procedures, and, unfortunately,