, Development and
Evaluation) system. There are limited Level I data available for many of the critical questions in the ﬁeld, demonstrating the
urgent need for comparative effectiveness research in PAD. Emphasis is placed on risk factor modiﬁcation, medical therapies, and
broader use of exercise programs to improve cardiovascular health and functional performance. Screening for PAD appears of
unproven beneﬁt at present. Revascularization for IC is an appropriate therapy for selected patients with disabling symptoms,
after a careful risk-beneﬁt analysis. Treatment should be individualized based on comorbid conditions, degree of functional
impairment, and anatomic factors. Invasive treatments for IC should provide predictable functional improvements with
reasonable durability. A minimum threshold of a >50% likelihood of sustained efﬁcacy for at least 2 years is suggested as a
benchmark. Anatomic patency (freedom from restenosis) is considered a prerequisite for sustained efﬁcacy of revascularization
in IC. Endovascular approaches are favored for most candidates with aortoiliac disease and for selected patients with femoropopliteal disease in whom anatomic durability is expected to meet this minimum threshold. Conversely, caution is warranted in
the use of interventions for IC in anatomic settings where durability is limited (extensive calciﬁcation, small-caliber arteries,
diffuse infrainguinal disease, poor runoff). Surgical bypass may be a preferred strategy in good-risk patients with these disease
patterns or in those with prior endovascular failures. Common femoral artery disease should be treated surgically, and saphenous
vein is the preferred conduit for infrainguinal bypass grafting. Patients who undergo invasive treatments for IC should be
monitored regularly in a surveillance program to record subjective improvements, assess risk factors, optimize compliance with
cardioprotective medications, and monitor hemodynamic and patency status. (J Vasc Surg 2015;61:2S-41S.)

DEVELOPMENT OF THE GUIDELINES
DOCUMENT
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) Lower Extremity
Guidelines Committee began the process by developing a
From the University of California, San Francisco, San Franciscoa; St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center, Bostonb; Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland,
Ohioc; Washington University Medical School, St. Louisd; Mount Sinai