should not be unduly delayed. Pertinent preoperative
assessment should be conducted in a timely manner to
optimize outcomes, especially for patients with associated comorbid conditions. Given the risk of rupture, both
patient and family need to understand and to accept
the rationale for any delay related to further evaluation.
Whether a recent surgical procedure, such as an
abdominal colectomy, coronary artery bypass, or prostatectomy, can increase the likelihood of aneurysm rupture
remains an unsettled question.99,300 It has been suggested that inﬂammation and the induction of a

30

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaikof et al

January 2018

catabolic state may result in enhanced collagen proteolysis with an increased risk of rupture. However, animal
studies have not found evidence of increased aortic
collagenase activity,301 nor has this notion been supported by a prospective clinical study.302 It seems
unlikely that the risk of aneurysm rupture is substantially
increased by an unrelated operation and that a severalweek delay to enable satisfactory recovery is acceptable
before elective AAA repair.
In summary, the optimal timing of AAA repair is based
on clinical presentation and aneurysm status: a ruptured
AAA requires emergent repair; a symptomatic, nonruptured aneurysm is best treated urgently; and an asymptomatic AAA can be treated electively after completion
of preoperative assessment. Delay in the treatment of
an asymptomatic, large AAA should be minimized.

We recommend immediate repair for patients who present
with a ruptured aneurysm.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

A (High)

Should repair of a symptomatic AAA be delayed to optimize
coexisting medical conditions, we recommend that the
patient be monitored in an ICU setting with blood products
available.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

Assessment of operative risk and life expectancy
Several prediction models developed to estimate operative risk for open AAA repair and EVAR hold the promise
of better informing patients of their individual risk of
perioperative mortality and provide surgeons a useful
tool to ensure an informed discussion with patients
and their families. Risk prediction models for aneurysm
repair were ﬁrst developed in the 1990s, largely