70,124
Body wall prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest access (necklace prosthetic access). This prosthetic access is performed between the axillary vein and the
contralateral axillary artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit. The axillary vein is exposed through a transverse
infraclavicular incision and is located deep to the pectoralis
major muscle. Through a similar incision, the contralateral
axillary artery is exposed. The prosthetic graft is tunneled
superficially across the chest wall between the axillary vein
and artery to perform the two anastomoses.
Prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest loop access. This prosthetic access is performed between the axillary vein and the
ipsilateral axillary artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit.
The axillary vein and artery are exposed through a transverse infraclavicular incision where they are located deep to
the pectoralis major muscle. The prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially in a loop on the chest wall between the
axillary vein and artery to perform the two anastomoses.
Prosthetic axillary–internal jugular chest loop access. This
prosthetic access is performed between the internal jugular
vein and the ipsilateral axillary artery using a prosthetic graft
as conduit. The internal jugular vein is exposed through a
longitudinal incision just anterior to the sternocleidomastoid muscle and is located in the carotid sheath. The axillary
artery is exposed through a transverse infraclavicular incision and is located deep to the pectoralis major muscle. The
prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially between the internal jugular vein and the axillary artery to perform the two
anastomoses.
Prosthetic axillary–femoral (vein) body wall access. This
prosthetic access is performed between the common femoral vein and the axillary artery using a prosthetic graft as
conduit. The common femoral vein is exposed through a
longitudinal groin incision. The axillary artery is exposed
through a transverse infraclavicular incision and is located
deep to the pectoralis major muscle. The prosthetic graft is
tunne