 example,
a small vein that failed to dilate with a gentle intraoperative
infusion of heparinized solution or a diseased artery with
poor inflow may not be worth re-exploration. It may make
more sense to evaluate alternative sites with a view toward
placing a new access. On the other hand, a possible kink in
the vein graft or compression within the tunnel would
require prompt urgent exploration.
Strategies for revisions can range from a simple thrombectomy to creation of completely new proximal anastomoses on the donor artery or vein. Occasionally, a preexisting venous stenosis that was not recognized before
placement of the access can be diagnosed angiographically.
In this situation, thrombectomy alone would not be expected to result in long-term access patency if the stenosis is
not addressed.
2. Late thrombosis. Although both autogenous and
prosthetic accesses are prone to late thrombosis, the approach to late thrombosis differs substantially. Prosthetic
accesses have a much higher incidence of thrombosis and
the access-specific stenotic lesion is more predictably found
in a specific location, at the prosthetic venous anastomosis.
In contrast, in autogenous access the stenosis can be located anywhere along the access vein used for needle puncture, and multiple stenoses are often present, thus highlighting the importance of complete access evaluation.
Prosthetic and autogenous accesses can both be plagued by
stenoses along the venous outflow tract, including central
veins on the same side.
Although venous stenoses are far more common, the
arterial side can also develop stenoses that can result in
access thrombosis. Such lesions can be atherosclerotic in
nature and can arise anywhere in the inflow arterial circuit.
In addition, a hyperplastic stenosis can occur at the arterial
anastomosis. Therefore, evaluation of the arterial inflow
from the central arteries to the artery providing inflow to
the access is indicated if a venous etiology cannot be found
or the quality of the arterial inflow is in question.
Intimal hyperplasia. In ⬎90% of cases, prosthetic accesses failure is due to stenosis of the venous anastomosis,
draining vein, or central vein.1