 the carotid intervention was CAS or CEA) provides
the same conclusions.
Symptomatic carotid disease. We evaluated in sensitivity analyses cohorts of symptomatic carotid stenosis
in which patients were treated with a combined CEA

and CABG approach vs CABG ﬁrst (ie, no CAS studies). Estimates were highly imprecise to derive conclusions
about all outcomes. The results are summarized in the
Supplementary Table I, (online only). Certainty in evidence was very low in all these outcomes that relate to
intervention timing, reduced owing to methodologic
limitations and severe imprecision.
Data suggests CEA before or concomitant with CABG in
symptomatic patients with signiﬁcant carotid stenosis of
50% to 99%, who require both CABG and CEA, to potentially lower risk of stroke and stroke/death. Meanwhile, for
patients who have severe asymptomatic stenosis or
contralateral occlusion or severe (70%-99%) bilateral
asymptomatic carotid stenosis CEA before or concomitant with CABG is preferable.

DISCUSSION
Main ﬁndings. This systematic review addressed ﬁve
important dilemmas that patients and surgeons face in
daily practice. In brief, medical management compared
with carotid interventions (CEA) in asymptomatic patients was associated with better early outcome during
the ﬁrst 30 days. However, CEA was associated with
signiﬁcantly better stroke/death rates in the long-term
at 5 years. In symptomatic low surgical risk patients,
CEA was associated with lower risk of stroke, but a signiﬁcant increase in MI compared with CAS during the
ﬁrst 30 days. The long-term outcome of transfemoral CAS
vs CEA in symptomatic patients suggests that the risk of
death or stroke within 120 days of the index procedure
was higher for CAS. The primary event outcome and
ipsilateral postprocedural stroke at 5 years was also
higher for CAS, which lends support that, over the long
term, CEA has superior outcome than transfemoral CAS.
When managing acute stroke, the comparison of CEA
during the ﬁrst 48 hours to that between day 2 and day
14 did not