 of positive outcomes for all
acute stroke interventions.60
Summary and recommendations for management of
acute neurologic syndrome.
1. Patients who present in less than 6 hours of onset of
stroke should be considered for acute intervention
to reduce the ultimate neurologic deﬁcit. Interventions may include local or systemic thrombolysis
(see Clinical Practice Guidelines).
2. Patients who present with ﬁxed neurologic deﬁcit
greater than 6 hours in duration should be considered
for CEA once their condition has been stabilized. CEA
should be performed less than 14 days after the index
neurologic event.
3. Patients who present with repetitive (crescendo episodes of transient cerebral ischemia) unresponsive
to antiplatelet therapy should be considered for urgent CEA.
4. Patients with a stenosis or more than 50% who present with stroke in evolution or crescendo TIAs should
be considered for urgent CEA, preferably within
24 hours. Early CEA within 14 days should be considered after intravenous thrombolysis in symptomatic
patients if they make a rapid neurologic recovery
(modiﬁed Rankin 0-2), the area of infarction is less
than 30% of the ipsilateral MCA territory, a previously
occluded MCA has been recanalized, there is a
greater than 50% carotid stenosis and no evidence
of parenchymal hemorrhage or signiﬁcant brain
edema.
5. For acute strokes after CEA, immediate imaging ultrasound examination or CTA is indicated for the evaluation of the endarterectomized site, if it can be done
expeditiously. When imaging suggests thrombosis or
is
indeterminate,
immediate
operative
reintervention is indicated. Immediate exploration is
mandated if imaging is delayed.
6. When the endarterectomy site is patent, other modalities of CT scanning and angiography should be used
to better identify as a cause of stroke. If CT scanning
excludes intracranial hemorrhage, anticoagulation is
reasonable until deﬁnitive decision regarding the
appropriate diagnosis and therapy can be made.

7. Revascularization should not be considered in patients with any stenosis who suffered a disabling
stroke, modiﬁed Rankin score of