cant bleeding result from diffuse capillary or
soft tissue oozing owing to intraoperative heparinization
and/or antiplatelet agents. At the completion of CEA,
administration of protamine to achieve heparin reversal
seems to decrease the incidence of signiﬁcant wound
hematoma.248 Although many vascular surgeons
routinely use drains after CEA, there has been no demonstrable decrease in risk of reexploration for bleeding
when drains are used.45
In a retrospective study of 384 patients, preoperative
clopidogrel therapy and not using protamine sulfate after heparin were identiﬁed as risk factors for hematoma.448 Upon reexploration, venous bleeding or

capillary oozing were more common ﬁndings than arterial bleeding from the site of vascular repair, and difﬁculty
with intubation because of tracheal deviation was prevalent. The authors recommend that airway management
for reexploration should include a laryngeal mask airway,
partial wound reexploration with hematoma evacuation
under initial local anesthesia, subsequent intubation for
general anesthesia, and ﬁnally complete wound exploration to achieve hemostasis.448
Although small asymptomatic wound hematomas or
ecchymosis may be carefully observed, larger hematomas that result from frank surgical bleeding can be
catastrophic. The presence of an enlarging hematoma
may result in stridor and airway compromise, and mandates emergency evacuation to avoid respiratory arrest.
A relatively small amount of blood in the closed space
of the neck may cause airway compromise. If the patient is in clear respiratory distress, opening the incision
at the bedside to evacuate the hematoma and relieve
airway obstruction can be lifesaving. Under more
controlled circumstances, emergency transport to the
operating room is advised. Awake ﬁberoptic endotracheal intubation may be required to safely intubate
the patient in the presence of a compressed airway.
Rarely, emergency cricothyroidotomy may be required.
Once the airway has been secured, reexploration
should proceed in an organized fashion with assessment and appropriate surgical treatment of any hemorrhage sources.
Summary and recommendations for the management of wound hematoma after CEA. Avoidance of
wound hematoma is best