 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
9. In patients with combined MAOD and mesenteric artery aneurysms, we recommend revascularization at
the time of treatment for their mesenteric artery aneurysms if the repair alone would disrupt the collateral network. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)

Rationale and background
Treatment goals for patients with CMI are to reverse the
symptoms, facilitate weight gain, prevent the development of AMI, and improve the patient’s overall quality
of life. The optimal treatment represents a balance between the natural history of the underlying disease process and the risks associated with the speciﬁc
treatment. Unfortunately, the natural history of both
CMI and MAOD remain poorly deﬁned, although the potential adverse sequelae are well-known. Accordingly,
patients with CMI require revascularization to optimize
mesenteric perfusion. There is essentially no role for prolonged total parenteral nutrition given the associated
risks and prolonged attempts to optimize the nutritional
status before revascularization may be harmful. The SMA
is the optimal target for revascularization and

revascularization of the SMA alone is usually sufﬁcient
given the extensive mesenteric collateral network. Revascularization of the CA or IMA alone should likely be
reserved for scenarios when revascularization of the
SMA is inadequate or not feasible. It is possible for patients to develop symptoms consistent with CMI with
occlusive disease isolated to the SMA despite the traditional teaching that it requires involvement of at least
two mesenteric vessels. Revascularization is indicated in
this scenario given the potential adverse sequelae and
the resolution of symptoms can actually serve as a diagnostic tool for CMI in patients with equivocal symptoms.
Similarly, even though the natural history of MAOD can
be benign, there is a subset of patients that may beneﬁt
from revascularization given the potential for adverse
sequelae, including those undergoing aortic reconstruction (both open and endovascular), those with involvement of all three of the mesenteric vessels, and those
undergoing treatment for mesenteric artery aneurysms
in which treatment would disrupt the collateral vessels.
Detailed justiﬁcation
Treatment goals for patients with CMI are to reverse the
symptoms, facilitate weight gain, prevent the development of AMI