SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY® DOCUMENTS

Endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic
injury: Clinical practice guidelines of the Society
for Vascular Surgery
W. Anthony Lee, MD,a Jon S. Matsumura, MD,b R. Scott Mitchell, MD,c Mark A. Farber, MD,d
Roy K. Greenberg, MD,e Ali Azizzadeh, MD,f Mohammad Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,g and
Ronald M. Fairman, MD,h Boca Raton, Fla; Madison, Wisc; Palo Alto, Calif; Chapel Hill, NC; Cleveland, Ohio;
Houston, Tex; Rochester, Minn; and Philadelphia, Pa
The Society for Vascular Surgery® pursued development of clinical practice guidelines for the management of traumatic
thoracic aortic injuries with thoracic endovascular aortic repair. In formulating clinical practice guidelines, the Society selected
a panel of experts and conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature. They used the Grading of
Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation methods (GRADE) to develop and present their recommendations. The systematic review included 7768 patients from 139 studies. The mortality rate was significantly lower in patients
who underwent endovascular repair, followed by open repair, and nonoperative management (9%, 19%, and 46%, respectively,
P < .01). Based on the overall very low quality of evidence, the committee suggests that endovascular repair of thoracic aortic
transection is associated with better survival and decreased risk of spinal cord ischemia, renal injury, graft, and systemic
infections compared with open repair or nonoperative management (Grade 2, Level C). The committee was also surveyed on
a variety of issues that were not specifically addressed by the meta-analysis. On these select matters, the majority opinions of the
committee suggest urgent repair following stabilization of other injuries, observation of minimal aortic defects, selective (vs
routine) revascularization in cases of left subclavian artery coverage, and that spinal drainage is not routinely required in these
cases. ( J Vasc Surg 2011;53:187-92.)

Blunt traumatic thoracic aortic injury is associated with
a high mortality rate, and has been implicated as the second
most common cause of death in trauma patients, behind
