
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial artery)–brachial
vein upper arm transposition. This autogenous access is performed between the end of the brachial vein and the
brachial artery located in the antecubital fossa. If there is
adequate vein available distally, use of the proximal radial
artery as inflow is another option. The brachial vein and
brachial artery are identified through a longitudinal incision
in the antecubital fossa. The brachial vein is mobilized to
the axilla and tunneled superficially and laterally to the
brachial artery to perform the anastomosis. This transposition is well suited for a two-stage technique because the
vein is quite small, unless it has been arterialized from a
prior forearm access. Further, a two-stage transposition will
result in elongation of the vein during the first stage,
providing the additional vein length that is usually required
to transpose this vein to a lateral subcutaneous tunnel.
Finally, superficialization of the vein can be done if there is
inadequate length to transpose the vein, in which case the
vein should be positioned laterally under a skin flap so that
cannulation does not have to be performed through the
incision site.
Autogenous proximal radial–median antebrachial (or
cephalic) vein, bidirectional flow. This autogenous access is
performed as a side-to-side or end-to-side anastomosis
using the median antebrachial or cephalic vein. Retrograde
flow is established into the forearm by disruption of the first
valve under direct vision with a small probe or reverse
valvulotome. Flow into both the upper arm cephalic vein
and the forearm median antebrachial vein offers the potential for continued and uninterrupted vascular access, should
one of the outflow branches fail. The brachial artery can
also be used as inflow, but use of the proximal radial artery
minimizes the risk of steal syndrome. Further, the side-toside anastomosis maintains flow through multiple venous
channels.122
Autogenous brachial (proximal radial) artery–axillary
vein upper arm indirect greater saphenous translocation.
