TA, or MRI/MRA should be obtained
immediately to evaluate stent patency, and determine
if there is distal embolization or ICH. Management of
acute stroke is described in the Acute Stroke section of
these guidelines. However, acute stroke during or immediately
after
CAS
might
require
immediate
reintervention.
Distal embolization. If the embolic material is large
enough to cause MCA occlusion, catheter-based thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (tPA),
GPIIB/IIIA inhibitor, and thrombectomy with stent retrieval
should be considered. There is strong evidence that recanalizing the MCA with mechanical thrombectomy dramatically increases survival and functional outcomes.421 However,
the latter studies included patients with acute stroke in
general, not after CAS speciﬁcally. Updated AHA guidelines
recommend endovascular intervention with stent retriever/
aspiration within 6 hours of onset of stroke for patients with
an occluded ICA or middle MCA.422
Intracranial hemorrhage. This complication of CAS is
rare. In the National Impatient Sample database, the risk
of intracranial hemorrhage is 6-fold higher in CAS
compared with CEA.423 However, these results have not
been conﬁrmed in large clinical trials.8 Hypertensive patients with symptomatic and bilateral carotid artery stenoses have been shown to have increased risk of
developing intracranial hemorrhage after CAS.424 One
study showed that patients on beta blockers before CAS
had 65% lower risk of stroke and death if they developed
hypertension postoperatively.62 Before the initiation of the
CAS procedure, all patients should be fully anticoagulated
with intravenous unfractionated heparin, preferably at 80
to 100 U/kg of dose. The activated clotting time should be
followed not to exceed 300 seconds to prevent risk of
hemorrhagic stroke secondary to reperfusion after CAS.425
Acute stent thrombosis. This complication is an acute
emergency with an increased risk of embolic stroke, and
it can be due to carotid artery recoiling,