 for participation in the trial. The Carotid
Revascularization Endarterectomy versus Stenting Trial
(CREST) study required a significant lead-in phase for
interventionalists and documentation of low procedural
morbidity.188,189 It is worth noting that CREST is associated with the lowest periprocedural complication rate in the
literature. There are data in the literature that suggest
achieving a low predictable complication rate after CAS
requires a higher level of initial and ongoing experience
than current guidelines suggest.97,190,191
No relationship has been demonstrated between specialty and outcome. Data from CREST demonstrate that
vascular surgeons, cardiologists, interventional radiologists, and interventional neurologists can all achieve comparable results with CAS and that experience is more important than specialty designation in assuring optimal
outcomes.188,189
● Recommendations regarding CEA and CAS technique
1. Patch angioplasty or eversion endarterectomy are recommended rather than primary closure to reduce the
early and late complications of CEA (GRADE 1, Level
of Evidence A).
2. Use of an embolic protection device (proximal or distal
occlusion, distal filter) is recommended during CAS to
reduce the risk of cerebral embolization (GRADE 1,
Level of Evidence B).
V. SELECTING THE APPROPRIATE THERAPY:
MEDICAL MANAGEMENT, CAS, OR CEA
Once a patient with a clinically significant carotid stenosis is identified, appropriate treatment must be selected.
Treatment is primarily directed at the reduction of stroke
risk. The risks of an interventional treatment must be
considered when treatment choices are made. In general,
rates of stroke, MI, and death have been used when comparing CAS with CEA. In most clinical trials comparing
CAS with CEA, stroke, MI, and death have been given

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

equal weight in determining a composite end point to test
overall efficacy.
Data from CREST,9 however, indicate that stroke has a
more significant effect on quality of life at 1 year than
nonfatal MI. Because the primary goal of intervention in
carotid stenosis is stroke prevention, in developing its recommendations, the committee placed more emphasis on
the prevention of stroke