 of the varicose veins had decreased in size by
average of 34.6%. Welch212 studied 184 limbs treated with
GSV RFA. Of the 155 limbs with successful total ablation
or only a patent segment <10 cm long, 101 (65.1%) had

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

255

Volume 11, Number 2

had symptom resolution and did not require further
treatment at 9 months of follow up.
A systematic review by Farah et al19 studied the outcomes of 6098 patients who had been enrolled in a RCT
(two publications),213,214 two observational studies,208,209
and another systematic review of eight studies.215 The
data supported better short-term and better to equivalent long-term outcomes for the patients who had undergone the combined procedure.
In a meta-analysis by Aherne et al,216 truncal ablation
alone, without any treatment of the varicose tributaries,
was sufﬁcient therapy for 63.9% of those assessed. Both
concomitant and staged treatments were safe and effective. Improvements in early disease severity and QoL scores
were better in the concomitant group. The concomitant interventions in all studies had resulted in fewer reinterventions than had the staged interventions. However, a
subgroup analysis of the RCTs alone did not identify differences in the reinterventions between the groups.
5.3. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the major
superﬁcial venous trunks and associated varicosities
undergoing initial ablation alone, we suggest that
patients be followed up for $3 months to assess the
need for staged phlebectomy or ultrasound-guided
sclerotherapy for persistent or recurrent symptoms.
Longer follow-up is recommended for patients with
recurrent symptoms and for patients participating in
clinical trials.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good clinical
practice

follow-up examination at 6 weeks to assess the need for a
further procedure. Only 36% of the patients in the staged
group had required additional treatment. A longer
observation period likely would have decreased that percentage even