 INTERVENTION INDICATIONS
A. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy
in low surgical risk patients?
See the Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3
B. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral CAS in low
surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid artery
stenosis of greater than 50%?
See the Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3
Once a patient with clinically signiﬁcant carotid stenosis is identiﬁed, appropriate treatment must be selected.
Treatment is primarily directed at reducing stroke risk.
The risks associated with an interventional treatment
must be compared with those of optimal medical therapy when treatment choices are made. In general, risk
of stroke, MI, and death are used when comparing transfemoral CAS with CEA. In most clinical trials comparing
transfemoral CAS with CEA, stroke, MI, and death have
been given equal weight in determining a composite
end point to test overall efﬁcacy. Data from the Carotid
Revascularization Endarterectomy vs Stenting Trial
(CREST),5 however, indicate that stroke has a more significant effect on quality of life at 1 year than nonfatal MI. In
developing its recommendations, the committee placed
greater emphasis on stroke prevention and procedurally
related death than periprocedural MI because the primary goal of intervention in carotid stenosis is stroke prevention. This may result in committee recommendations
that differ from the published results of some trials in
which these three outcomes were allocated equal analytic weight.

The major determinants of the clinical course of patients with carotid bifurcation stenosis are the presence
or absence of neurologic symptoms and the severity of
stenosis. Treatment is chosen based on assessment of
risk associated with the intervention and the likelihood
that a particular intervention will favorably alter the
course of disease.
The threat of stroke in asymptomatic patients with less
than 60% ICA stenosis and in symptomatic patients
with less than 50% stenosis is generally considered to
be small and does not warrant intervention. ECST and
NASCET demonstrated that CEA did not signiﬁcantly
reduce subsequent neurologic event rates in patients
with symptoms of cerebral ischemia and bifurcation
stenosis of less than 50% diameter reduction and it
was actually associated with increased morb