rombosis (phlegmasia cerulea dolens).
We recommend that patients with isolated femoropopliteal deep venous
thrombosis be managed with conventional anticoagulation therapy because
there is currently insufficient evidence to support early thrombus removal
strategies in this patient population.
Techniques for early thrombus removal
We suggest percutaneous catheter-based techniques (pharmacologic or
pharmacomechanical) as first-line therapy for early thrombus removal in
patients meeting the criteria in 1.1.
We suggest a strategy of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis be considered over
catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis alone if expertise and resources
are available.
We suggest open surgical venous thrombectomy in selected patients who are
candidates for anticoagulation but in whom thrombolytic therapy is
contraindicated.
Periprocedural inferior vena cava filters
We recommend against routine use of inferior vena cava filters (permanent or
temporary) in conjunction with catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis
of the iliofemoral venous segments.
We suggest that the relative risks vs benefits of periprocedural retrievable inferior
vena cava filter placement be considered in patients undergoing
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and those with thrombus extending into
the inferior vena cava or having markedly limited cardiopulmonary reserve.
Adjunctive use of venous stents
We recommend the use of self-expanding metallic stents for treatment of
chronic iliocaval compressive or obstructive lesions that are uncovered by any
of the thrombus removal strategies.
We suggest that stents not be used in the femoral and popliteal veins.
Early thrombus removal strategies as an adjunct to conventional management
We recommend that patients managed with early thrombus removal be treated
with a standard course of conventional anticoagulation after the procedure.
We recommend that all patients be treated with knee-high compression
stockings (30 to 40 mm Hg) for at least 2 years after the procedure.

A first episode of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is
estimated to occur with a weighted mean age-adjusted
incidence of 50.4/100,000 person-years.1 Historically, the
treatment of acute DVT has been directed toward