ASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

4. NONINTERVENTIONAL MANAGEMENT OF
THE PATIENT WITH IC
As noted, IC is the most common clinical manifestation of PAD. Patients with IC may exhibit a wide range
of symptom severity and associated effect on daily function.
Moreover, concomitant conditions, such as cardiopulmonary disease, arthritis, spine disease, and obesity, can markedly limit exercise capacity in a synergistic fashion.
Therefore, the treatment of IC must be individualized
and based on a careful assessment of risk factors, compliance, and the subjective values of the patient. Of paramount importance at the time of the initial diagnosis is
patient education, both regarding the long-term implications of PAD on cardiovascular health and to allay fears
of amputation (Fig 2). Multiple studies have established
that patients with IC are at increased risk for cardiovascular
events, whereas the risk of major amputation is exceedingly
low (<1% per year).6,61 Establishing an appropriate therapeutic framework of risk reduction, lifestyle modiﬁcation,
and antiatherosclerotic medical therapies should always
precede consideration of invasive procedures for IC.
Claudication signiﬁcantly affects QoL, and this effect is
often underestimated by treating physicians. IC is associated
with severe functional impairment that can be signiﬁcantly
improved by intervention in properly selected patients. Multiple studies by McDermott et al59,62,63 have objectively documented the adverse effect of PAD and claudication on
patients’ functional status. Even in patients with mild PAD, results of multiple tests of functional impairment, such as the 6minute walk test, are signiﬁcantly worse in PAD patients
compared with those without PAD.64 In addition to reduced
functioning, severe PAD is associated with reduced survival.63
Patients in the lowest quartile of an ofﬁce-administered 6minute walk performance test exhibited signiﬁcantly increased
mortality (odds ratio [OR], 2.36).
4A. Pharmacotherapy for patients with claudication:
Risk reduction
Patients with IC carry a signiﬁcant systemic burden of
atherosclerosis and are at risk for its associated complications.
These patients should have lifelong treatment designed to
eliminate or modify known risk factors for atherosclerosis to
reduce the