helps to prevent negative pressure formation and helps
to minimize embolic showering.
In contrast, post-PTA is largely user dependent. It is
commonly used to mitigate residual stenosis after stent
deployment. However, post-PTA is associated with an

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

61S

Volume 75, Number 1S

increased risk of intraoperative and postoperative hemodynamic depression, and a signiﬁcant increase in the risk
of stroke and death. The latter might be secondary to
fracturing of the atheromatous plaque and liberation
of a large amount of particulate debris.390 Obeid
et al391 compared pre-PTA vs post-PTA using the SVSVQI dataset and reported a 2-fold higher odds of periprocedural stroke/death rate following poststent PTA
compared with prestent PTA. However, patient selection
may be biased in this analysis. Nonetheless, PTA is generally reserved for select cases with severe residual stenosis.
Stents used in CAS are self-expanding and continue to
expand after the procedure.392 A mild to moderate residual stenosis (<30%) of the target lesion may be
accepted in an effort to avoid generating excessive
embolic debris and potentially severe embolic
complications.366
A recent systematic review/meta-analysis of predilation
and postdilation in transfemoral CAS by Ziapour et al393
showed avoiding post-PTA reduces the perioperative hemodynamic instability which can last up to 30 days.
Regardless of the type, fewer PTA during CAS particularly
decreases neurologic events during and 30 days after the
procedure.
Summary and recommendations.
Pre-PTA and post-PTA.
1. Protection should be established before PTA during
CAS.
2. Prestent PTA can be performed safely with small
diameter balloon to nominal pressure.
3. Post-PTA should only be used for patients with significant residual stenosis.
Stent selection.
Open closed cells. Depending on the density of the
struts, carotid stents can be classiﬁed into open vs closed
cells. Generally, a free cell area of more than 7 mm2 is
consider