. Considering the beneﬁts and harms of this recommendation it is judged to be essential to diagnose or
exclude PAD in this population given the large impact of
untreated disease, the low burden of the tests to the person

undergoing testing, and the high likelihood that diagnosis
will be valued by them. All aforementioned bedside tests
(ABI, TBI, CWD) should be performed by trained healthcare
professionals in a standardised manner and these tests can
be applied by a wide range of practitioners, after having
received adequate training. From the perspective of middle
or high income countries the resources required to undertake bedside testing are relatively low compared with other
methods of diagnosing PAD such as CDUS, CTA, MRA, and
angiography. It is likely that many people will value the
knowledge that their feet need more intensive care to prevent amputation, but this has not been studied in a sufﬁciently large cohort. Based on the uncertainty of the
evidence a Conditional Recommendation was made for
additional non-invasive testing in this group of people
with asymptomatic disease. The role of additional testing
in those with intermittent claudication is outside the scope
of this guideline.
Recommendation 3
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, take a
relevant history for peripheral artery disease, examine the
person for signs of ischaemia and palpate the foot pulses.
Grade
Strong

Certainty of evidence
Low

Recommendation 4
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, evaluate pedal Doppler waveforms in combination with ankle
brachial index (ABI) and toe brachial index (TBI) measurements to identify the presence of peripheral artery disease
(PAD).
No single modality has been shown to be optimal for the
diagnosis of PAD, and there is no value above which PAD can
be excluded. However, PAD is less likely in the presence of ABI
0.9 e 1.3; TBI $ 0.70; and triphasic or biphasic pedal Doppler
waveforms.
Grade
Strong

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. PAD is present in approximately half of the
people with a DFU.29,30 Therefore, in any person with
diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, PAD should be
considered and should be