0% of patients have TAAs that are the sequelae of
chronic AD. Importantly, for this document, TAA related
to chronic type B ADs and those associated with inherited connective tissue disorders are intentionally
excluded and are the subject of future SVS documents.
Natural history and rupture rate of TAA. Published
data on the natural history of isolated TAAs is not as
readily available as it is for infrarenal AAA, partially related
to their much less frequent occurrence. Also, data
regarding isolated TAA have historically been combined
with TAAA and with aneurysm associated with dissection, each of which is likely to have its own unique

natural history, further clouding our knowledge.22
Importantly, TAAs often occur in patients with multiple
comorbidities, such as hypertension and atherosclerosis,
over a wide range of ages. Therefore, patients often succumb to other disease processes, such as cancer or coronary artery disease, highlighting the importance of
preoperative surgical decision-making in the setting of
the largely unknown natural history of TAA.
Regardless, initial studies from the 1970s by McNamara
and Pressler23 documented that approximately 40% of
TAA patients who did not undergo surgical repair died
of rupture, whereas 32% died of other cardiovascular diseases, with a mean survival of <3 years after TAA diagnosis. During an extended period of observation, >90%
of patients with unrepaired aneurysms suffered aortic
rupture, with 68% of ruptures occurring >1 month after
the diagnosis.23,24 A more recent (2002) review25 found
the 5-year survival rate for patients with a 6.0-cm TAA
to be 54%, with a risk for rupture of 3.7%/y and a risk
for death of 12%/y. The investigators found a similar median survival in patients with untreated TAA of only
3.3 years. In a natural history study by Crawford and
DeNatale26 of TAA patients who were not candidates
for open surgery, the survival rate was just 24% at 2 years,
with more than half the deaths related to aneurysm
rupture. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COP