iﬁcantly after short
stripping of the more proximal GSV. The proportion of
patients with visible varicose veins in the GSV area below
the knee had decreased from 70% to 16% after stripping.
The investigators concluded that IPVs are not related to
the persistence of visible varicose veins below the knee
nor to the persistence of below-the-knee GSV reﬂux.

Fig 3. Perforating veins of the leg. PTV, Posterior tibial vein;
SPC, superﬁcial posterior compartment. Used with
permission of Mayo Foundation for Education and
Research, all rights reserved.

The ﬁndings of these studies, including the systematic
review, support the initial nontreatment of IPVs in patients with C2 disease who have truncal vein reﬂux associated with IPVs. The addition of perforator ablation in
RCTs did not signiﬁcantly improve hemodynamic status,
clinical presentation, or QoL compared with treatment of
superﬁcial truncal vein reﬂux alone.200,201 In addition, no
statistically signiﬁcant difference was found in the
anatomic closure of the GSV at 1 month and 1 year.19
The clinical presentation of an incompetent thigh
perforator vein with an incompetent distal GSV deserves
special consideration. In many of these patients, the SFJ
and proximal GSV will be competent. A good practice
appears to be to treat these patients with ablation of
the distal GSV and the thigh perforator vein, which is
the major incompetent connection with the deep
venous system. However, a RCT by Park et al201 advised
the performance of saphenous vein ablation alone for
these patients. However, the primary reason for failure
of the combined procedure was technical, with an
inability to treat the perforators in 8 of 34 limbs
(23.5%).201 Further studies to support perforator ablation
during the initial procedure in these unique situations
are warranted.
Guideline 4.2. For patients with varicose veins (C2)
and persistent or recurrent symptoms after previous
complete ablation of incompetent superﬁcial truncal
veins, we suggest treatment of IPVs if they are