The recurrence rate of SVT is between 10 and 20%. One
large case series of SVT patients described a recurrence
rate of 15% among 221 patients.262 In modern times
with widespread application of anticoagulant therapies,
the risk of recurrence or VTE is w6%, with the highest
risk occurring among patients with previous episodes
of SVT and long segment thrombosis.263 Although not
addressed by a randomized control trial, best practice
would include informing patient of the risk of recurrent
SVT and offering surgical or endovascular therapy for
the treatment of symptomatic recanalized varices and
axial reﬂux (if present in the recanalized saphenous
vein after completion of evidence based antithrombotic
therapy).
13. Management of bleeding varicose veins.
13.1. For patients presenting with acute bleeding
from varicose veins, leg elevation, direct compression,
and sclerotherapy should be attempted before suture
ligation to control bleeding.
Consensus statement.
13.2. For patients with bleeding due to varicose veins,
prompt referral to a venous specialist should be done.
Consensus statement.
13.3. For patients who presented with bleeding from
varicose veins, and bleeding has been controlled, evaluation for superﬁcial venous incompetence and appropriate intervention should be done to control venous
hypertension and reduce the risk of recurrent
hemorrhage.

56

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

Consensus statement.
13.4. Patients with varicose veins or venous ulcerations should be counseled on the possibility of venous
bleeding and their families, caregivers, or friends
educated regarding leg elevation and simple compression techniques to control severe bleeding.
Consensus statement.
Rationale. The true incidence of bleeding from varicose
veins is unknown due to under-reporting but appears to
occur in approximately 4% of patients presenting with
varicose veins.264,265 Bleeding often arises from small
veins at the ankle with surrounding skin pigmentation
and induration or following exacerbation of a venous
ulcer leading to erosion of veins underlying