ﬁcant wounds and a systolic
AP <50 mm Hg or an ABI <0.4 are quite likely to require
revascularization to achieve wound healing and limb
salvage. These patients have ischemia grade 3, a level of
ischemia strongly associated with increased amputation
risk.26,44 However, especially in patients with diabetes
and wounds complicated by infection, correction of intermediate perfusion deﬁcits (0.4 <ABI <0.8) may speed
healing of smaller wounds, or even be required to heal
extensive wounds. Patients in this intermediate perfusion
range were classiﬁed as ischemia grades 1 and 2. If the
ABI is unreliable or incompressible, TP or TcPO2 measurements must be performed to stratify the degree of ischemia.
The latter measurements are preferred in patients with
diabetes mellitus or the elderly, when ABI measurements
may be falsely elevated because of medial calcinosis. Toe
pressures are mandatory in all patients with diabetes mellitus66-69 and alternate perfusion measurements that may
be especially applicable to patients with foot wounds,
and a spectrum of ischemia may help quantify the degree
of ischemia including pulse volume recordings, skin
perfusion pressures and quantitative indocyanine green
angiography.70

WOUND GRADES

INFECTION GRADES

In the SVS WIfI classiﬁcation system (Table II),
wounds are stratiﬁed or graded from grade 0 through
grade 3 based on size, depth, severity, and anticipated difﬁculty achieving wound healing (see clinical description in
Table II). A grade 0 patient does not have a wound. Grades
1, 2, and 3 are blended from published DFU classiﬁcation
systems, but gangrene is also included and stratiﬁed by
extent. In contrast to previous systems, WIfI also considers
the anticipated complexity of the procedure(s) required to
achieve wound healing. As shown in Table II, grade 1
wounds are characterized by minor tissue loss salvageable
with simple digital amputation or skin coverage. Grade 2
wounds are more advanced, but potentially salvageable
with multiple digital amputations or at most, a standard
transmetatarsal amputation. Extensive