 catheter-directed
intra-arterial thrombolysis, clot dissolution or fragmentation with evacuation, and potentially, intracranial stenting,
may be used as appropriate.233,236-239,257 In selected cases,
perfusion imaging may also be of utility in determining
which patients will potentially benefit from intracranial
revascularization.245,246
Acute occlusion of the stent has rarely been reported. A
total of 10 cases of stent thrombosis have been reported,
with causes being attributed to the use of inappropriate,
balloon-expandable stents, inadequate antiplatelet or anticoagulation therapy, or plaque protrusion through the
stent or technical failure Options for management are
analogous to the techniques used for acute de novo occlusion of the internal carotid artery and include recanalization, intra-arterial thrombolysis, and management of the
underlying cause of the occlusion.
● Recommendations for management of acute neurologic syndromes
1. Patients who present ⱕ6 hours of the onset of stroke
should be considered for acute intervention to reduce
the ultimate neurologic deficit. Interventions may include local or systemic thrombolysis (GRADE 1, Level
of Evidence A). The role of endoluminal mechanical
lysis or extraction remains to be defined.
2. Patients who present with fixed neurologic deficit ⬎6hours’ duration should be considered for CEA once
their condition has been stabilized. CEA should be

Ricotta et al e21

performed ⱕ2 weeks of the neurologic event (GRADE
1, Level of Evidence B).
3. Patients who present with repetitive (crescendo) episodes of transient cerebral ischemia unresponsive to
antiplatelet therapy should be considered for urgent
CEA. The risk of intervention is increased over elective
surgery for neurologic symptoms, but not as much as for
patients with stroke in evolution. CEA is preferred to
CAS in these patients based on the presumptive increased embolic potential of bifurcation plaque in this
clinical situation (GRADE 1 Level of Evidence C).
4. For acute stroke after CEA, emergent imaging (ultrasound
or fast CTA) is indicated to evaluate the endarterectomy
site. When imaging suggests throm