SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY® DOCUMENTS

Early thrombus removal strategies for acute deep
venous thrombosis: Clinical Practice Guidelines of
the Society for Vascular Surgery and the American
Venous Forum
Mark H. Meissner, MD,a Peter Gloviczki, MD,b Anthony J. Comerota, MD,c Michael C. Dalsing, MD,d
Bo G. Eklof, MD,e David L. Gillespie, MD,f Joann M. Lohr, MD,g Robert B. McLafferty, MD,h
M. Hassan Murad, MD,i Frank Padberg, MD,j Peter Pappas, MD,k Joseph D. Raffetto, MD,l and
Thomas W. Wakefield, MD,m Seattle, Wash; Rochester, Minn; Toledo, Ohio; Indianapolis, Ind; Helsingborg, Sweden;
Rochester and New York, NY; Cincinnati, Ohio; Springfield, Ill; Newark, NJ; West Roxbury, Mass; Ann Arbor, Mich
Background: The anticoagulant treatment of acute deep venous thrombosis (DVT) has been historically directed toward
the prevention of recurrent venous thromboembolism. However, such treatment imperfectly protects against late
manifestations of the postthrombotic syndrome. By restoring venous patency and preserving valvular function, early
thrombus removal strategies can potentially decrease postthrombotic morbidity.
Objective: A committee of experts in venous disease was charged by the Society for Vascular Surgery and the American
Venous Forum to develop evidence-based practice guidelines for early thrombus removal strategies, including catheterdirected pharmacologic thrombolysis, pharmacomechanical thrombolysis, and surgical thrombectomy.
Methods: Evidence-based recommendations are based on a systematic review and meta-analysis of the relevant literature,
supplemented when necessary by less rigorous data. Recommendations are made according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology, incorporating the strength of the
recommendation (strong: 1; weak: 2) and an evaluation of the level of the evidence (A to C).
Results: On the basis of the best evidence currently available, we recommend against routine use of the term “proximal
venous thrombosis” in favor of more precise characterization of thrombi as involving the iliofemoral or fem