SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERYÒ DOCUMENT
The Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines on the
care of patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm
Elliot L. Chaikof, MD, PhD,a Ronald L. Dalman, MD,b Mark K. Eskandari, MD,c Benjamin M. Jackson, MD,d
W. Anthony Lee, MD,e M. Ashraf Mansour, MD,f Tara M. Mastracci, MD,g Matthew Mell, MD,b
M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,h Louis L. Nguyen, MD, MBA, MPH,i Gustavo S. Oderich, MD,j
Madhukar S. Patel, MD, MBA, ScM,a,k Marc L. Schermerhorn, MD, MPH,a and Benjamin W. Starnes, MD,l
Boston, Mass; Palo Alto, Calif; Chicago, Ill; Philadelphia, Pa; Boca Raton, Fla; Grand Rapids, Mich; London, United Kingdom;
Rochester, Minn; and Seattle, Wash

ABSTRACT
Background: Decision-making related to the care of patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is complex.
Aneurysms present with varying risks of rupture, and patient-speciﬁc factors inﬂuence anticipated life expectancy,
operative risk, and need to intervene. Careful attention to the choice of operative strategy along with optimal treatment
of medical comorbidities is critical to achieving excellent outcomes. Moreover, appropriate postoperative surveillance is
necessary to minimize subsequent aneurysm-related death or morbidity.
Methods: The committee made speciﬁc practice recommendations using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment,
Development, and Evaluation system. Three systematic reviews were conducted to support this guideline. Two focused on
evaluating the best modalities and optimal frequency for surveillance after endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). A third
focused on identifying the best available evidence on the diagnosis and management of AAA. Speciﬁc areas of focus
included (1) general approach to the patient, (2) treatment of the patient with an AAA, (3) anesthetic considerations and
perioperative management, (4) postoperative and long-term management, and (5) cost and economic considerations.
Results: Along with providing guidance regarding the management of patients throughout the continuum of care, we
have revised a number of prior recommendations