
uncommon occurrence of a tortuous GSV on duplex examination are potential contraindications. Patients with ropy
varicose veins located immediately under the skin or those
with aneurysmal dilations of the SFJ are probably better
served with conventional high ligation, division, and stripping. Those with extensive deep venous occlusion should
undergo superficial ablation selectively, because superficial
veins in these patients may be important for venous outflow
from the leg.
There are no absolute contraindications to EVLA, including vein diameter, although Lawrence et al262 have
recently suggested an association of central GSV diameter ⬎8 mm with increased risk of extension of thrombus
into the femoral vein. Other relative contraindications to
endovenous saphenous vein ablation (EVLA or RFA)
include uncorrectable coagulopathy, liver dysfunction
limiting local anesthetic use, immobility, pregnancy, and
breastfeeding.
Technique. The techniques of vein ablations using
EVLA or RFA are similar. For GSV ablation, the patient is
placed in the reverse Trendelenburg position first, and the
GSV is accessed percutaneously under ultrasonographic guidance using a micropuncture needle inserted into the vein just
distal to the knee. Treatment is usually limited to the abovethe-knee segment of the vein to avoid injury to the saphenous
nerve, which is close to the saphenous vein in the calf (Fig 1).
A microguidewire is inserted in the vein, followed by placement of a 4F microsheath. With the help of a floppy
guidewire, the sheath is exchanged for a 5F sheath, allowing placement of the laser fiber or for an 11-cm-long 7F
sheath for placement of the RF catheter.
The laser fiber or RF probe is introduced through the
sheath into the GSV and advanced proximally to the SFJ.
The tip of the catheter is then positioned 1 cm distal to the
confluence with the superficial epigastric vein or 2 cm distal
to the SFJ. The patient is then placed in the Trendelenburg
position and the vein emptied by elevation and compression by instillation of perivenous tum