 receptor
blockers for the sole purpose of reducing the risk of AAA
expansion and rupture.
Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

We suggest not administering beta blocker therapy for the
sole purpose of reducing the risk of AAA expansion and
rupture.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

B (Moderate)

Timing of intervention
A patient with a known AAA or pulsatile mass on
abdominal examination who presents without hemodynamic instability and acute onset of back or abdominal
pain should undergo an immediate CT scan to determine whether rupture has occurred. Whereas a ruptured
AAA represents a surgical emergency, the timing of
aneurysm repair for patients with a symptomatic but
nonruptured aneurysm represents a clinical dilemma.
Under select circumstances, it may be appropriate to
delay intervention for several hours to ensure conditions
for successful repair, including optimizing anesthetic
support, as well as blood product or device availability.
If such an approach is elected, the patient should be
closely monitored in an ICU.
A more frequent concern is the timing for treatment of
an asymptomatic, large AAA, >5.4 cm in diameter. In the
ADAM trial, rupture risk was estimated at 10% per year
for aneurysms between 5.5 and 6.9 cm in diameter but
>33% per year when aneurysms were 7 cm or larger in
diameter.66 Recent reports, however, suggest that
contemporary rupture rates may be lower than previously
estimated. For example, a pooled analysis from natural
history studies and control arms from interventional trials
calculated a rupture risk of 6.3% per year for aneurysms >7
cm in diameter.67 In general, should a patient be considered a surgical candidate, repair of a large aneurysm
should not be unduly delayed. Pertinent preoperative
assessment should be conducted in a timely manner to
optimize outcomes, especially for patients with associated comorbid conditions. Given the risk of rupture, both
patient and family need to understand and to accept
the rationale for any delay related to further evaluation.
Whether a recent surgical procedure, such as an
abdominal colectomy, coronary artery bypass, or prostatectomy, can increase the likelihood of aneurysm rupture
