 performed, since testing could result in unnecessary saphenous vein ablation procedures.

1.5.2.

In symptomatic CEAP Class C1 patients with bleeding or with severe symptoms of pain or burning due to moderate to severe
telangiectasias or reticular veins, DUS evaluation may be performed to exclude associated venous incompetence; however,
saphenous ablation for C1 disease without bleeding is rarely required.

1.5.3.

In symptomatic patients with varicose veins (CEAP Class C2) the deep venous system should be routinely evaluated for
infrainguinal obstruction or valvular incompetence

1.5.4.

In symptomatic patients with varicose veins (CEAP Class C2) evaluation for iliofemoral venous obstruction with DUS or with
other imaging studies should be performed if suprapubic or abdominal wall varicosities are present and in patients with
symptoms of proximal obstruction, including thigh and leg fullness, heaviness, swelling and venous claudication. CEAP
Classes 3-6 warrant DUS or other imaging studies to evaluate for iliofemoral obstruction.

1.5.5.

In patients with medial thigh or vulvar varicosities evaluation of pelvic venous pathology with DUS or other imaging studies is
not indicated if they have no symptoms of pelvic venous disease.
2. Compression therapy

2.1 Compression therapy vs. intervention
Guidelines

Grade of
recommendation

Quality of
Evidence

2.1.1.

For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and axial reﬂux in the superﬁcial truncal
veins, we suggest compression therapy for primary treatment if the patient’s ambulatory
status and/or underlying medical conditions warrant a conservative approach, or if the
patient prefers conservative treatment for either a trial period or deﬁnitive management.

2 (weak)

C (low to
very low)

2.1.2.

For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and axial reﬂux in the GSV or SSV who are
candidates for intervention, we recommend superﬁcial venous intervention over longterm compression stockings.

1 (strong)

B
(moderate)

2.1.3.

For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and axial reﬂux in the AAGSV or PAGSV, who 2 (weak)
are candidates