 at the arterial
anastomosis. Therefore, evaluation of the arterial inflow
from the central arteries to the artery providing inflow to
the access is indicated if a venous etiology cannot be found
or the quality of the arterial inflow is in question.
Intimal hyperplasia. In ⬎90% of cases, prosthetic accesses failure is due to stenosis of the venous anastomosis,
draining vein, or central vein.115-119 Histologic analysis of
the venous anastomotic lesion demonstrates that it is identical to restenotic lesions that occur in the coronary arteries
after coronary angioplasty or artery-to-artery bypass. The

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

pathophysiology of prosthetic access failure is largely that of
neointimal hyperplasia at the venous anastomosis.
It is important to note that once access occlusion
occurs, prolonged patency is unusual. Thrombectomy, access revision, or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty
usually result in a limited period of patency before failure
recurs. The inability to prolong access patency after occlusion reflects several challenges, including the difficulty of
correcting the primary lesion responsible for access failure,
alteration in graft thrombogenicity, persistence of secondary lesions, or a combination of these factors. Moreover,
the injury caused by angioplasty of the stenotic lesion can
itself promote accelerated neointimal hyperplasia. Because
the venous anastomotic lesion of an AV graft is a proliferative vascular lesion, it is difficult to dilate and has a very
high recurrence rate, regardless of the corrective intervention performed.
The KDOQI Guidelines recommend9,120 that stenoses
in prosthetic or autogenous accesses should be treated
prophylactically with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or surgical revision if the stenosis is ⬎50% of the
lumen diameter and is associated with clinical/physiologic
abnormalities.
Management of thrombosed access. The mainstay of the
management of thrombosed access is clot management,
identification of stenotic lesions causing thrombosis, and
management of significant stenotic lesions. Clot management