 restore patency in
AV access (GRADE 2, very low-quality evidence).
7.1. Evidence
The choice between open and endovascular interventions to improve the functionality or to restore or maintain
patency in accesses that show signs of impending failure is

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

based on nonrandomized studies that showed both procedures to be moderately effective and safe. Owing to the lack
of such randomized comparison, the panel was unable to
recommend one over the other. Open thrombectomy is
successful in restoring thrombosed access function.109,110
Similarly, endovascular techniques using a combined percutaneous mechanical and pharmacologic thrombectomy
are successful in restoring function in most patients. Further, both open and endovascular interventions may add a
further average of 12 months of functionality with low
morbidity and mortality while preserving future sites of
access.111
7.2. Values and peferences
In recommending either method or a combination of
both to be used for failed or failing AV accesses, the
committee recognizes the weakness of the evidence that
may favor one method rather than the other. Because none
of these methods has been proven to have better short- or
long-term results, the committee based its recommendation on other factors that may determine outcomes. Such
factors include the experience of the surgeon, interventionalist, or other AV access specialist and the ability or availability of either method in a certain situation or location
where a patient presents for care.
7.3. Technical remarks
Management of nonfunctional or failed AV access
A. Access functionality. Access functionality is a very
important concept. An access can be patent but unusable
for successful hemodialysis—and thus nonfunctional—and
such an access provides no benefit to the patient. In fact, a
nonfunctional access maybe even harmful because the patient may continue to be dialyzed using percutaneous catheters, with their intended complications, while waiting for
the autogenous access to dilate and mature.
An access that has failed to mature is patent but not
functional.12 Failure to mature is more frequently an issue
with autogenous AV accesses than prosthetic grafts. As
recommended by the FFBI, every new autogenous access
should be evaluated for development at 4 weeks