 carotid stenosis found no differences
in risk of perioperative mortality or stroke.460 Patients
who underwent redo CEA had higher risk of cranial nerve
injuries, but most recovered in three months. However,
risk of a secondary episode of recurrent stenosis was
greater in patients whose initial restenosis was treated
with CAS.
Several studies addressed perioperative and late outcomes of open surgical and endovascular treatment of
post-CEA restenosis, and demonstrated acceptable results with either technique.461 However, in many of these
studies, CAS was typically used for early lesions related to
neointimal hyperplasia, while redo CEA was preferred in
cases of late restenosis owing to recurrent atherosclerotic
lesions. Early restenosis is typically a ﬁbrous lesion that is
thought to have a low potential for embolization and
stroke. By contrast, late recurrent stenoses owing to
atherosclerotic lesions are typically associated with a
higher embolic risk. Many authors recommend reintervention in cases of moderate and severe symptomatic
recurrent stenosis, as well as severe preocclusive or progressive asymptomatic restenosis.
There seems to be an established relationship between
restenosis and late ipsilateral stroke.461,462 In a systematic
review and meta-analysis of studies with a mean of
37 months of surveillance, 13 of 141 CEA patients (9.2%)

with a restenosis of greater than 70% or occlusion suffered a late ipsilateral stroke compared with 33 of 2669
patients (1.2%) who did not have a restenosis of greater
than 70% or occlusion. Nevertheless, 97% of all late ipsilateral strokes after CAS and 85% after CEA occurred in
patients without evidence of signiﬁcant restenosis or
occlusion.462
Summary and recommendations for the management of restenosis after CEA.
1. The use of patch angioplasty or eversion endarterectomy is generally preferred over conventional endarterectomy with primary closure to reduce the
incidence of recurrent carotid stenosis, particularly in
women or patients with small diameter ICAs.
2. Early recurrent stenosis after CEA