 associated with a 28%
mortality rate5 and a 16% paraplegia rate.6 There has been
a risk of delayed rupture in the unrepaired thoracic transection that has been estimated to be 2% to 5%.7
Thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) is a rapidly evolving therapy in the treatment of a variety of thoracic aortic pathologies. TEVAR involves placing an endovascular stent graft into the thoracic aorta from a remote
peripheral location under imaging guidance. TEVAR offers
the potential for a durable aortic repair while avoiding the
morbidity of a thoracotomy, aortic cross clamping, and
cardiopulmonary bypass. Nevertheless, stroke, spinal cord
ischemia, and other complications that are associated with
open repair can also occur with TEVAR.
Although there is no device currently commercially
available with an on-label indication for repair of traumatic thoracic aortic transections, these are increasingly
being treated off-label using endovascular devices. At the
time of this manuscript, there were at least two ongoing
investigator device exemption (IDE) pivotal clinical trials in187

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2011

188 Lee et al

Table I. GRADE (Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) system
Strength of recommendation
Grade 1 (strong)
Grade 2 (weak)
Quality of evidence
Level A (high quality)
Level B (moderate quality)
Level C (low or very low
quality)

Terminology
“We recommend . . .”
“We suggest . . .”
Source of evidence
Well conducted randomized trials.
Less rigorous or inconsistent
randomized trials.
Observational studies, case series,
and unsystematic observations
or expert opinion.

vestigating the safety and efficacy of endovascular repair of
traumatic thoracic aortic injuries. Despite the focal nature of
these aortic injuries, which may appear to favor endograft
repair, there remains a number of unresolved issues: (1)
poor conformation to the arch, (2) frequent need to cover
the left subclavian artery (LSA), (3) uncertain natural history of the repair given the younger age of trauma victims
and the morphologic changes of the aorta that