 the geriatric population is poorly
documented.
Implementation considerations
The recommended endovascular-ﬁrst approach to
revascularization for patients with CMI largely reﬂects
the current national practice although open revascularization should still play a signiﬁcant role and should be
considered within the treatment algorithm. The evolution of the endovascular therapies for CMI (and other
vascular surgical problems) has decreased the overall
number of open procedures, and, unfortunately, this
has impacted the number of open aortic procedures
performed in many training programs. This change in
the training paradigms has the potential to diminish
the open operative skill set of the graduating trainees
and, ultimately, the care of patients with CMI.
Future research
Level 1 evidence to deﬁne the role of endovascular vs
open revascularization for patients with CMI
d Further deﬁne the indications for endovascular revascularization for CMI
d Further deﬁne the indications for open revascularization for CMI
d Develop patient-speciﬁc treatment algorithms
d

Preoperative evaluation
Recommendations.
1. Patients undergoing revascularization for CMI should
be optimized from a medical standpoint before intervention although their preoperative evaluation should
be expedited. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend obtaining a CTA to delineate the
vascular anatomy before any revascularization.
A catheter-based arteriogram may be an alternative
if the anatomy is not clear on the CTA. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence:
A (High)
Rationale and background
Patients with CMI typically have systemic vascular disease and associated comorbidities. Accordingly, patients
undergoing treatment for CMI should undergo an expedited preoperative evaluation designed to optimize their

104S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

underlying medical conditions and management of their
atherosclerotic risk factors. Patients may beneﬁt from
enteral or parenteral nutritional supplements, although
this should not delay or prolong the preoperative evaluation before deﬁnitive revascularization. A CTA should be
obtained before revascularization to further deﬁne the
anatomy and extent of occlusive disease.
Detailed justiﬁcation
The atheroscl