, 92% of ulcers healed with only 4% recurrences. There
was a 3% nonfatal complication rate, and significant improvement was documented in venous hemodynamics in a
subset of patients.
In a systematic review, Tenbrook et al38 reported results of the SEPS procedure performed with or without
superficial ablation on 1140 limbs in 1 RCT and 19 case
series. Ulcers in 88% of limbs healed and recurred in 13%, at
a mean time of 21 months. Risk factors for nonhealing and
recurrence included postoperative incompetent perforating
veins, pathophysiologic obstruction, previous DVT, and
ulcer diameter ⬎2 cm. The authors concluded that surgical
treatment, including SEPS, with or without saphenous
ablation, is recommended for patients with venous ulcers,
but RCTs are needed to discern the contributions of compression therapy, superficial venous surgery, and SEPS in
patients with advanced CVI.
The Dutch SEPS RCT59 compared results of surgical
treatment in 103 patients (SEPS, with or without superficial reflux ablation) with medical treatment in 97 patients
with venous ulcers. The rate of ulcer healing at 29 months
in the surgical group was 83%, with recurrence of 22%. In
the conservative treatment group, ulcers healed in 73% and
recurred in 23% (P ⫽ NS). The study concluded that SEPS,
with or without superficial ablation, failed to improve healing or recurrence over best medical treatment. Ulcer size
and duration were independent factors adversely affecting
ulcer healing and recurrence. In a subgroup analysis, medial
ulcers, recurrent ulcers, or SEPS done in centers of excellence did show significant benefit. In this study, 86% of the
patients had medial or recurrent ulcers. On the basis of
these data and results of a previous RCT by Stacey et al,369
the evidence summary of O’Donnell19 concluded that further properly conducted RCTs are needed to provide highquality evidence of efficacy of perforator interruptions in
patients with leg ulcers. Previous AVF recommendations
agreed with this statement.370