The Society for Vascular Surgery: Clinical practice
guidelines for the surgical placement and
maintenance of arteriovenous hemodialysis access
Anton N. Sidawy, MD, MPH,a Lawrence M. Spergel, MD,b Anatole Besarab, MD,c Michael Allon, MD,d
William C. Jennings, MD,e Frank T. Padberg Jr, MD,f M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,g
Victor M. Montori, MD, MSc,g Ann M. O’Hare, MD,h Keith D. Calligaro, MD,i Robyn A. Macsata, MD,a
Alan B. Lumsden, MD,j and Enrico Ascher, MD,k Washington, DC; San Francisco, Calif; Detroit, Mich;
Birmingham, Ala; Tulsa, Okla; Newark, NJ; Rochester, Minn; Philadelphia, Pa; Houston, Tex; and Brooklyn, NY
Recognizing the impact of the decision making by the dialysis access surgeon on the successful placement of autogenous
arteriovenous hemodialysis access, the Society for Vascular Surgery assembled a multispecialty panel to develop practice
guidelines in arteriovenous access placement and maintenance with the aim of maximizing the percentage and functionality of autogenous arteriovenous accesses that are placed. The Society commissioned the Knowledge and Encounter
Research Unit of the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota, to systematically review the available
evidence in three main areas provided by the panel: timing of referral to access surgeons, type of access placed, and
effectiveness of surveillance. The panel then formulated practice guidelines in seven areas: timing of referral to the access
surgeon, operative strategies to maximize the placement of autogenous arteriovenous accesses, first choice for the
autogenous access, choice of arteriovenous access when a patient is not a suitable candidate for a forearm autogenous
access, the role of monitoring and surveillance in arteriovenous access management, conversion of a prosthetic
arteriovenous access to a secondary autogenous arteriovenous access, and management of the nonfunctional or failed
arteriovenous access. For each of the guidelines, the panel stated the recommendation or suggestion, discussed the
evidence or opinion upon which the recommendation or suggestion was made, detailed the values and preferences that
influenced the group’s decision in formulating the relevant