cers.
The role of IPC in treatment of venous ulcer patients needs
to be deﬁned, especially in patients who cannot tolerate
compression therapy or who have failed to respond to prolonged compression therapy alone. Finally, methods for
assessing the patient’s compliance with wearing of these
garments/devices that are better than “patient diaries”
should be developed. These monitoring devices are being
employed in the treatment of other diseases, like the diabetic foot.
Operative/Endovascular. Unfortunately, the quality
of evidence to support recommendations for operative
and endovascular management is limited to level C evidence. This lower level of evidence is due to the absence
of comparative prospective RCTs, with the exception of
a few studies that address treatment of superﬁcial venous
disease. Even the data in the treatment of superﬁcial
insufﬁciency, as suggested by the commissioned metaanalysis, are limited in scope. The data derived from
open procedures (ligation and stripping RCTs) have been
extrapolated to results that might be achieved with
thermal ablation. Future investigations need to address
this deﬁciency in a meaningful way to push the ﬁeld
forward.
Many recommendations regarding healed patients or
patients with potential VLU are based on extrapolations
from the data obtained from patients with active VLUs.
Each speciﬁc patient condition needs focused investigation
to determine what “best care” is. Several methods of great
and small saphenous ablation are under investigation and
may provide even less risk for the beneﬁts provided.
Many in the venous community have reserved deep
venous reconstruction for those cases in which nothing
else has been successful. This treatment option has been
a forgotten therapeutic alternative for a growing population of patients with deep venous insufﬁciency in whom
nonsurgical and superﬁcial venous intervention has been
unsuccessful. Because of the ease of other interventions
or a misguided assumption, there is room to reinvestigate
this assumption by comparing repair of deep venous insufﬁciency vs outﬂow obstruction interventions in patients
who have both conditions.
Ancillary. Ancillary measures to improve ulcer healing
include adequate nutrition to provide sufﬁcient vitamins,
minerals, and protein to support the growth of granulation
tissue. Whereas pentoxifylline and micronized puriﬁed