 ischemic area as
rapidly as possible.
In each of these clinical scenarios, expeditious clinical evaluation, brain imaging, and rapid evaluation of the
carotid bifurcation is important in optimizing results.
Brain imaging, most often by diffusion-weighted MRI,
allows a rapid assessment of the amount of brain infracted and the amount at risk, whereas CDUS imaging
can assess the status of the bifurcation. As will be discussed below, this information dictates the branch points
in treatment algorithms that follow. In general, patients
with preocclusive carotid stenosis or carotid occlusion
are considered for emergency intervention, whereas
those with lesser degrees of stenosis are initially managed
medically with urgent, but not emergency intervention,
according to the recommendations for symptomatic patients with carotid stenosis.
1. Management of acute stroke.
a. Presentation within 0-6 hours. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke trial established

Ricotta et al e19

the efficacy of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen
activator in the treatment of acute stroke, if therapy could
be initiated ⱕ3 hours of the onset of symptoms.230 Efficacy
has also been established for transarterial intracranial infusion.231 Factors that have been noted to influence results
include the extent of hemispheric involvement, time to the
initiation of therapy, time to reperfusion, age, blood glucose, and female sex.232-235 The most important of these
appear to be the degree of hemispheric involvement (⬎30%
by volume), time to reperfusion, and age. The more rapidly
intracranial reperfusion occurred, the better the neurologic
recovery, with minimal improvement seen if reperfusion
was not established before 6 hours.234 Thrombolysis may
be given by systemic (intravenous) or local (intracranial)
routes, and both routes are used in some cases to facilitate
rapid reperfusion.234
Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator
(r-tPA) has the advantage of rapid onset of administration
but the potential disadvantage of longer time to reperfusion. Administration of r-tPA into the intracranial thrombus requires assembling a