2018
We suggest concomitant surgical treatment of other visceral
arterial disease at the time of OSR in symptomatic patients
who are not candidates for catheter-based intervention.

Table VIII. Estimated perioperative complications after
elective open surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm
(AAA)

Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Complication

Quality of evidence

B (Moderate)

All cardiac

15

Myocardial infarction

2-8

All pulmonary

8-12

Management of associated intra-abdominal nonvascular disease. In the occurrence of an AAA and associated intra-abdominal disease, the most life-threatening
condition should be treated ﬁrst. Simultaneous repair is
avoided because of added morbidity and, in the case of
genitourinary or gastrointestinal procedures, the risk of
bacterial contamination of the prosthesis.
Cholelithiasis is the most common abdominal disease,
with a prevalence of 5% to 20%. Asymptomatic cholelithiasis should be left untreated because the risk of acute
cholecystitis after elective AAA repair is <1%.427 In the
presence of a large aneurysm, treatment of a colorectal
tumor takes precedence in the presence of impending
obstruction, bleeding, or perforation. Otherwise, colon
resection should be delayed for 4 to 6 weeks after AAA
repair.428 Simultaneous resection of ovarian or renal tumors may be considered if a staged minimally invasive
treatment is not feasible.
We suggest concomitant surgical repair of an AAA and
coexistent cholecystitis or an intra-abdominal tumor in
patients who are not candidates for EVAR or staged
intervention.
Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

Perioperative outcomes of open AAA repair
Factors affecting mortality of OSR include the surgeon
and hospital volume, urgency of the procedure, age of
the patient, presence and severity of comorbidities, and
proximal aneurysm extension. Symptomatic coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, severe chronic pulmonary disease, and advanced chronic kidney disease
remain the most important predictors of mortality.364
There has been considerable variation in 30-day mortality rates in the literature, depending on the