 device initially requires the crossing of the lesion,
which can result in increased embolization. Also, this device has the disadvantage of stopping blood ﬂow during
stenting. However, it does have an advantage of smaller
diameter than proximal occlusion devices. If these devices used, it is crucial to aspirate adequately after stenting and before balloon deﬂation to remove all debris.
Vasospasm may be encountered before or just after ﬁlter
or occlusion balloon removal, and this is usually
managed by watchful waiting. Rarely, the administration
of a vasodilatordmost commonly nitroglycerine in 100mg aliquotsdis necessary to relieve ﬂow-limiting
vasospasm.366
Proximal occlusion. Proximal occlusion with transfemoral CAS can be achieved with the MoMa device by
placement of two occlusion balloons in common and
external carotid artery (Medtronic). Disadvantages of
this system are the larger sheath size (9F), the need for
ECA selection and balloon placement.
TCAR with cerebral ﬂow reversal. The ENROUTE system for TCAR allows for dynamic cerebral ﬂow reversal
by connecting the arterial sheath to a venous sheath
placed in the common femoral vein. The connecting
tubing allows for low and high ﬂow reversal options. After
clamping of the proximal CCA, active ﬂow reversal carries
embolic debris, released during or immediately after angioplasty and stent placement, away from the cerebral
circulation. The main advantage of this technique, in
addition to avoiding the arch, is the ability to perform
the entire procedure (lesion crossing, ballooning, and
stenting) under complete protection. The disadvantages
of this technique include the need to cutdown
compared with the percutaneous approach, the inability
to use it in patients with calciﬁed and atherosclerotic
proximal CCA and proximal CCA diameter of less than
6 mm or in patients with less than 5 cm distance from
the clavicle to the carotid bifurcation. Short-term results from the ROADSTER study of high-risk patients
undergoing TCAR with the ENROUTE neuroprotection
and stent system showed