i An update to this article is included at the end

Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines
for management of extracranial carotid disease
John J. Ricotta, MD,a Ali AbuRahma, MD, FACS,b Enrico Ascher, MD,c Mark Eskandari, MD,d
Peter Faries, MD,e and Brajesh K. Lal MD,f Washington, DC; Charleston, WV; Brooklyn, NY; Chicago, Ill;
New York, NY; and Baltimore, Md
Management of carotid bifurcation stenosis is a cornerstone of stroke prevention and has been the subject of extensive
clinical investigation, including multiple controlled randomized trials. The appropriate treatment of patients with carotid
bifurcation disease is of major interest to the community of vascular surgeons. In 2008, the Society for Vascular Surgery
published guidelines for treatment of carotid artery disease. At the time, only one randomized trial, comparing carotid
endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid stenting (CAS), had been published. Since that publication, four major randomized
trials comparing CEA and CAS have been published, and the role of medical management has been re-emphasized. The
current publication updates and expands the 2008 guidelines with specific emphasis on six areas: imaging in identification
and characterization of carotid stenosis, medical therapy (as stand-alone management and also in conjunction with
intervention in patients with carotid bifurcation stenosis), risk stratification to select patients for appropriate interventional management (CEA or CAS), technical standards for performing CEA and CAS, the relative roles of CEA and CAS,
and management of unusual conditions associated with extracranial carotid pathology. Recommendations are made using
the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system, as has been done with other
Society for Vascular Surgery guideline documents. The committee recommends CEA as the first-line treatment for most
symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic patients with stenosis of 60% to 99%. The
perioperative risk of stroke and death in asymptomatic patients must be <3% to ensure benefit for the patient. CAS should
be reserved for symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50