 type II endoleaks with aneurysm expansion but
recommend continued surveillance of type II endoleaks not associated with aneurysm expansion. Whereas antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended for patients with an aortic prosthesis before any dental procedure involving the manipulation of
the gingival or periapical region of teeth or perforation of the oral mucosa, antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended before
respiratory tract procedures, gastrointestinal or genitourinary procedures, and dermatologic or musculoskeletal procedures
unless the potential for infection exists or the patient is immunocompromised. Increased utilization of color duplex ultrasound is suggested for postoperative surveillance after EVAR in the absence of endoleak or aneurysm expansion.

From the Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,

W. L. Gore, and GE Healthcare. M.L.S. has been a consultant for Cook Medical,

Bostona; the Department of Surgery, Stanford University, Palo Altob; the

Abbott, Philips, has received ﬁnancial support from Abbott, Endologix, Cook

Department of Surgery, Northwestern University, Chicagoc; the Department

Medical, and Philips, and has been a member of the Scientiﬁc Advisory Com-

of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphiad; the Christine E. Lynn

mittee Membership for Endologix. W.B.S. is a stockholder in AORTICA Corpo-

Heart & Vascular Institute, Boca Raton Regional Hospital, Boca Ratone; the

Additional material for this article may be found online at www.jvascsurg.org.

Royal Free Hospital, Londong; the Evidence-based Practice Centerh and

Correspondence: Elliot L. Chaikof, MD, PhD, Department of Surgery, Harvard

Department of Surgery,j Mayo Clinic, Rochester; the Department of Surgery,

Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 110 Francis St, Ste

Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Bostoni; the Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Bostonk; and the Department of Surgery, University
of Washington, Seattle.l
Author conﬂict of interest: M.K.E. has received honorarium and ﬁnancial support from Prairie Education and Research Cooperative (Bard), Silk Road Med-

2

ration. All other authors have nothing to disclose.

Department of Surgery, Spectrum Health Medical Group, Grand Rapidsf