 grades of stenosis. Many studies have
conﬁrmed associations between disease progression
and stroke. However, the low overall risk, partly related to
the protective role of the index CEA and partly to optimization of medical treatment, challenge the need for carotid intervention in patients with asymptomatic carotid
stenosis with prior contralateral CEA.590,593,602,603,605,606
In the most recent retrospective study, late stroke risk in
patients with disease progression of the contralateral
ICA was almost double that of those without progression
(7.0% vs 3.3%). However, the difference did not reach signiﬁcance even when only progression to severe stenosis
was considered, an observation that points to other stroke
sources (eg, cardiac origin or a lacunar stroke). The authors
concluded that 95% of patients who undergo CEA will
take at least 2 years to progress to clinically relevant severe
($70%) ipsilateral or contralateral stenosis and that risk of
stroke, even for those who progress is very low.590

There are no robust data regarding intervals for followup imaging, and existing recommendations vary from
“no surveillance” to selective to rigorous follow-up.607 Targeted imaging surveillance programs based on a patient’s individual risk factors may be more cost effective.
Female gender, diabetes, renal insufﬁciency, continued
smoking, and impaired cerebrovascular reactivity (eg,
electrophysiological changes during clamping or neurologic symptoms during balloon inﬂation) have been
associated with disease progression and/or symptomatic
conversion.453,590,595,608,609
If cost effectiveness is considered in developing policies
to guide perioperative duplex scan surveillance, it is
reasonable to scan at 1 year and annually thereafter until
disease seems to be stable, deﬁned as no restenosis is
observed in two consecutive annual scans. Annual
follow-up also allows careful reassessment of risk factors
and medical treatment optimization. More frequent
follow-up can be considered for higher risk groups.
Summary and recommendations.
1. After CEA or CAS, we recommend surveillance with
duplex
ultrasound
examination
at
baseline
