 data, for patients with poor tibial or pedal runoff, OPAR with GSV
is considered preferential to EPAR for good-risk patients. High-risk patients, deﬁned as those with a high
cardiovascular risk or adverse anatomic criteria such as
severe venous stasis or lymphedema, pose a challenge
because the natural history of PAA is known only from
purely retrospective data. As such, for patients with a
poor life expectancy and an asymptomatic PAA, it
may be reasonable to defer any intervention. If treatment of a PAA is indicated for such patients, because
endovascular treatment is less taxing and has fewer
postoperative complications, EPAR should be considered, regardless of the availability of the GSV or quality
of the runoff vessels.
Our literature review suggests that younger age, the
availability of single-segment GSV, challenged runoff vessels, and lower operative risk favor the choice of OPAR.
However, greater equipoise for EPAR is present with
advancing age, an insufﬁcient GSV, the presence of satisfactory landing zones and tibial runoff, and higher operative risk. In the absence of robust comparative data,
thoughtful judgment by an experienced vascular surgeon retains primacy in the selection of the optimal
repair strategy.
Recommendation 5: We recommend that intervention for thrombotic and/or embolic complications of
PAA be stratiﬁed by the severity of ALI at presentation.
We recommend that patients with mild to moderate
ALI (Rutherford grade I and IIa) and severely
obstructed tibiopedal arteries undergo thrombolysis
or pharmacomechanical intervention to improve
runoff status, with prompt transition to deﬁnitive

118S

Farber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

PAA repair. We recommend that patients with severe
ALI (Rutherford grade IIb) should undergo prompt surgical or endovascular PAA repair, with the use of
adjunctive surgical thromboembolectomy or pharmacomechanical intervention to maximize tibiopedal
outﬂow. Nonviable limbs (Rutherford grade III) require
amputation (grade 1B).
When patients present with an acutely thrombosed
PAA, the degree of ischemic insult will determine the
course of