, although no other studies
have reported this association to date.
Because there is a demonstrable incidence of cranial
nerve injury after CEA that is absent after CAS, patients
with a history of a contralateral vocal cord paralysis are at
increased risk with CEA vs CAS; thus, CAS would be
preferred in these patients.
B. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with carotid
artery stenosis of 60% or more
1. CEA for asymptomatic lesions. Patients with
asymptomatic lesions are currently responsible for nearly all
of the carotid interventions performed in the United
States.7 Controlled randomized trials have compared CEA
with best medical therapy, but there are a paucity of data on
the role of CAS in asymptomatic patients. The results of
ACAS5 and ACST6 favored CEA in the management of
these patients. ACAS demonstrated the superiority of CEA
over antiplatelet therapy alone for asymptomatic patients
with carotid stenosis of ⱖ60%. This trial recommended
CEA for these patients (aged ⬍80 years) as long as the
expected combined stroke and mortality rate for the individual surgeon was not ⬎3%.
The long-term effectiveness of CEA in asymptomatic
patients was confirmed by the recently updated results of
ACST I, as reported by Halliday et al.212 Compared with
the randomized medical arm, where patients primarily received antithrombotic and antihypertensive therapy, the
patients in the CEA arm (aged ⬍75 years) experienced
significantly lower perioperative and 10-year stroke rates
(13.3% vs 17.9%). The strength of these conclusions
have been questioned, based on the relatively modest
absolute benefits of CEA and the contention that the
medical therapy arm did not reflect contemporary medical management.213,214
The question of whether modern medical therapy (including statins) is equivalent or superior to CEA or CAS has
not yet been addressed by well-designed, appropriately
funded, prospective, multicenter, and randomized trials.
An upcoming multicenter randomized trial designed to
answer the role of modern pharmacologic therapy in the
management of asymptomatic carotid stenosis is the StentProtected Angioplast