 therapy arm did not reflect contemporary medical management.213,214
The question of whether modern medical therapy (including statins) is equivalent or superior to CEA or CAS has
not yet been addressed by well-designed, appropriately
funded, prospective, multicenter, and randomized trials.
An upcoming multicenter randomized trial designed to
answer the role of modern pharmacologic therapy in the
management of asymptomatic carotid stenosis is the StentProtected Angioplasty in Asymptomatic Carotid Artery
Stenosis (SPACE-II) study,215 which will include best
medical therapy as the third arm of the trial together with
CEA and CAS.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

Concerns have also been raised about whether the
results of the controlled trials could be attained in general
practice. Critics pointed out that these trials were performed in centers of excellence and that the patients were
highly selected. However, subsequent reports on patients
who would have been excluded from these trials suggest
that the exclusion criterion did not falsely lower complication rates. Combined stroke and death rates after CEA in
patients defined as high-risk or eligible for high-risk carotid
registries varied between 1.4% and 3.6%, well within the
AHA guidelines.193,194,210 Similarly, studies of large National Surgical Quality Improvement Program, state, and
Medicare databases of between 4,000 and 35,000 patients7,8,176,215 demonstrated stroke and death rates as low
as 2.2% with a maximum of 6.9% (symptomatic patients
only), suggesting that results that conform to national
guidelines are achievable across large patient populations.
2. CAS in asymptomatic lesions. Very few studies
have specifically addressed the outcome of carotid stenting
in asymptomatic patients. CAS has been applied in asymptomatic patients based on the benefit seen for CEA, with
the expectation that it would be equivalent or superior to
CEA because of its less invasive nature. Many studies of
CAS have been in the form of “high-risk” registries.96,97,163,216-219 Others, such as the Carotid and