, strategies for
revascularization, medical, endovascular, and surgical
management, nonrevascularization treatments, amputations, postprocedural care, and surveillance of
patients with CLTI. Since important studies expected
to provide level 1 evidence on management of CLTI
are still being conducted in the U.S.3 and in England,4
only nine recommendations are strong (Grade I),
supported by a high level (A) of evidence. Still, the
guidelines include important recommendations for all
physicians, health care professionals, and third-party
payors who are involved with the care of patients
with CLTI.
Author conﬂict of interest: none.
J Vasc Surg 2019;69:1S-2S
0741-5214
Copyright Ó 2019 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2019.04.469

What did we learn that should now be the standard of
care for CLTI?
First, we learned that the diagnosis of CLTI requires a
thorough history and physical examination by an experienced vascular physician, as well as combination of tests,
including noninvasive physiologic studies, followed by
either duplex imaging or cross-sectional imaging using
computed tomography angiography or magnetic
resonance angiography. Catheter angiography and intravascular ultrasound, in most cases, should be reserved to
document anatomy before treatment and should not be
used for making the diagnosis. There are many patients
with noncritical PAD and coexisting diabetes, vasculitis,
or degenerative arthritis that masquerade as CLTI; therefore, the initial evaluation should be performed in an
accredited vascular laboratory equipped with objective
hemodynamic tests to establish the diagnosis using
segmental limb and toe pressures and ankle-brachial
indices. Once the initial assessment is completed, the
guidelines endorse the Society for Vascular Surgery
Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation system that is based on
grading of Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI); it
provides the most accurate staging of CLTI.5
Second, we learned that all patients with CLTI should
receive best medical therapy, including antithrom