 full explanation of the GRADE approach has been presented to the
vascular surgery community.5-7 The Committee reached
consensus about all the recommendations and the level
of supporting evidence. These guidelines will require periodic updates to become a “living document” that will
be modiﬁed as techniques are further reﬁned, technology develops, medical therapy improves, and new data
emerge.

10S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Evidence synthesis. The Committee commissioned a
systematic review of MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane databases, and Scopus that had wide inclusion criteria. The
review included studies with 10 patients or more that reported outcomes of patients with visceral artery aneurysm treated with an open or endovascular approach.
Studies were comparative or noncomparative but had
to have longitudinal follow-up and to evaluate an
outcome of interest (mortality, need of reintervention,
myocardial infarction, stroke, end-organ ischemia, endorgan infarction, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary
embolism, postembolization syndrome, respiratory
complications, gastrointestinal complications, coil
migration, post-endovascular aortic repair rupture,
rupture during intervention, or wound complications [eg,
surgical site infection]). The systematic review eventually
summarized data from 80 observational studies that
were mostly noncomparative. Data were available on
2845 aneurysms (1279 renal artery; 775 splenic artery; 359
hepatic artery; 226 pancreaticoduodenal and gastroduodenal arteries; 95 superior mesenteric artery; 87 celiac
artery; 15 jejunal, ileal, and colic arteries; 9 gastric and
gastroepiploic arteries).8
A methodology group independently selected and
appraised studies and subsequently collaborated with
the committee to integrate evidence into recommendations. The Committee provided additional references
and monitored the literature for new evidence emerging
after the original search.

RENAL ARTERY ANEURYSM (RAA)

obtained for unrelated reasons. In a multicenter study,
CTA (58%) was the most commonly used modality for
the diagnosis and evaluation of RAAs, followed