
Hospital, Baltimore.l
*Deceased.
Competition of interest: none.
Reprint requests: Enrico Ascher, MD, Maimonides Medical Center, 4802 10th
Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11219 (e-mail: eascher@maimonidesmed.org).
0741-5214/$34.00
Copyright © 2008 by The Society for Vascular Surgery.
doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2008.05.036

480

able evidence to inform its key recommendations. Results
from systematic reviews and their quantitative pooling of
evidence, eg, meta-analysis, offer higher precision and apply to a wider range of patients than individual trials.1 These
committees commissioned the Knowledge and Encounter
Unit, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, to search for
relevant existing reviews and to conduct new systematic
reviews to answer specific questions.
One of the topics chosen by the SVS is the management
of carotid artery stenosis. Carotid endarterectomy has long
been considered the best surgical treatment for carotid
disease with a proven track record in reducing mortality and
morbidity.2,3 However, carotid stenting has emerged as an
alternative, effective and less invasive approach that may be
more attractive to patients at higher perioperative risk and
patients who prefer to avoid open procedures and their
associated morbidities. Several randomized controlled trials
(RCTs) were conducted to compare the two procedures
with some showing stenting to be noninferior to endarterectomy4,5 and some showing inferiority.6 When a metaanalysis pooled these studies, the pooled risk estimates were
imprecise with very wide confidence intervals7 making inference from these trials challenging. Knowing that new
RCTs were recently published, the carotid committee of

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 2

the SVS requested an update of previous reviews to determine the current status of the research evidence about the
treatment of carotid artery stenosis in the two clinical
scenarios of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients.
In issuing clinical practice guidelines, the SVS has
adopted the GRADE system because it separates the quality
of evidence