 developed the practice guideline by
assigning members to create primary drafts of each section of the document based on the aforementioned
outline, highlighting speciﬁc areas where recommendations were needed and appropriate. Each section was
then placed into a single document, compiled, reviewed,
and revised by the writing group, led by the Chair. All
guideline recommendations were reviewed by the full
committee and ﬁnalized through an iterative, consensus
process. In considering available treatment modalities to
be included in the ﬁnal draft, we evaluated only options
currently available to patients and physicians in the
United States.
The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) framework was used
for determining the quality of evidence and the strength
of recommendation, as previously reported.1 The quality
of evidence is rated high (A), moderate (B), or low (C).
This rating is based on the risk of bias, precision, directness, and consistency. The strength of recommendation
is graded on the basis of the quality of evidence, balance
between beneﬁts and harms, patients’ values, preferences, and clinical context. Recommendations are
graded strong (1) or weak (2). The term we recommend
is used with strong recommendations, and the term
we suggest is used for weak recommendations. Some
statements are labeled good practice statements.4 These
are statements that did not have direct supporting evidence but had ample indirect evidence and would be
considered by many surgeons as surgical principles.
Some statements are labeled implementation remarks.
These are technical suggestions that aim to explain
and to implement the preceding recommendation.
Finally, the SVS Document Oversight Committee peer
reviewed the document twice and provided content
and methodology expertise. The document was then
revised and sent to the Executive Committee and
received ﬁnal endorsement.

METHODOLOGY AND EVIDENCE REVIEW
In association with the TEVAR for TAA guideline group
document and recommendations, a systematic review
and meta-analysis were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of TEVAR and open repair in patients with isolated TAA.5 The data sources for this evidence review
included PubMed, Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid Embase, EBSCO
CINAHL, and Scopus, which were searched from each database’s inception to January 29, 2016. Observational
studies that compared the two approaches in adults
with TAA and reported 