, (3) prepump arterial pressure, and (4) DU
scanning. Unlike clinical evaluation, most surveillance
methods require the use of specialized equipment and
trained technicians. Each of these methods has a high
positive predictive value for identifying access dysfunction
when applied to the correct setting and to the indicated
type of access (autogenous or prosthetic access, catheter). A
description of how to perform these tests can be found in
the NKF-KDOQI Clinical Practice Guidelines.9 The clinical value of each test is summarized below:
1. Access blood flow measurements. Access blood flow is
the best determinant of access function. As a prosthetic
access develops progressive stenosis, access blood flow falls
progressively. A number of studies have shown that a
prosthetic access blood flow rate of ⬍600 mL/min, or one
that has decreased by ⬎25% from the previous baseline, has
a high predictive value for significant stenosis (87% to
100%).95,96 This test is most useful for autogenous AV
access, where venous pressure surveillance is less reliable.
The most common methods of measuring access flow can
be performed in 10 to 15 minutes while the patient is on
dialysis, after reversing the arterial and venous lines. The
measurement uses ultrasound dilution (Fick principle) by
measuring the rate of change in ultrasound transmission in
the venous line after infusion of a saline bolus through the
arterial line. The KDOQI Guidelines recommend monthly
measurement of access flow. It requires specialized equipment and a trained technician.
2. Static venous dialysis pressure. The greatest value of
static venous dialysis pressure (VDP) is in prosthetic accesses, but is of little or no value as a surveillance tool for
autogenous accesses because of the high incidence of lowflow etiologies proximal to the venous needle in autogenous accesses where VDP is measured.
Measurement of dynamic VDP (at a low dialysis blood
flow of 200 ml/min) is a relative poor marker of autogenous or prosthetic access stenosis. It is affected by multiple
factors, including the dialysis blood flow, needle diameter,
type of dialysis machine, and the patient’s blood pressure.
Better standardization can be achieved