
concomitant revascularization at the time of open aneurysm repair (1A).
Aneurysms can develop within the major mesenteric
vessels and their collateral networks. One of the presumed mechanisms is the hemodynamic forces that
result from the increased ﬂow through the collateral

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

99S

Volume 73, Number 1S

vessel as a result of a stenosis or occlusion in the major
vessels (eg, aneurysm in inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery with concomitant CA occlusion).108 Many of these
ﬂow-related aneurysms can be treated with ligation or
coil embolization. However, it is important to detail the
full extent of the mesenteric circulation and the extent
of the contribution of the collateral network before treatment. Revascularization of the CA or SMA may be justiﬁed to preserve the mesenteric perfusion concomitant
with treatment of the aneurysm.109
Implementation considerations
The indications, targets, and goals of treatment for CMI
are relatively well-known to vascular surgeons. However,
vascular care, including endovascular treatment of for
CMI, is provided by a variety of physicians, including primary care providers, gastroenterologists, cardiologists,
and radiologists. It is incumbent upon the vascular surgery community to help educate the other providers
involved in the care of vascular patients regarding the
importance of timely referral, appropriate treatment indications, and targets for revascularization.
Future research
Natural history of CMI
Natural history of MAOD
d Management of MAOD and open aortic reconstruction
d Management
of MAOD and mesenteric artery
aneurysms

longer term morbidity and mortality, along with the rates
of recurrent symptoms and the need for remedial
interventions. Endovascular revascularization is the recommended initial treatment for the overwhelming majority of patients, provided that the lesion is amenable.
The endovascular approach is associated with a lower
perioperative complication rate and shorter inpatient
hospital length of stay, although the rate of recurrent
symptoms and need for reintervention are both higher.
There does not seem to be a difference in the perioperative or longer term mortality rate between the endovascular and