cant periprocedural pain. No measurable beneﬁt of
the use of ultrasound methods to débride wounds has
been reliably demonstrated. Enzymatic débridement,
which does not require a trained clinician for application,
has been found in several studies to remove nonviable tissue from VLU wound beds, but there is no evidence that
this method provides a beneﬁt over surgical débridement.231-233 In clinical trials, larval therapy along with
compression has been shown to be an effective method
of débridement. However, the use of larval therapy did
not increase the rate of healing for necrotic tissue or
slough in leg ulcers compared with ulcers treated with
hydrogel and compression.234,235 Barriers to the use of
larval therapy also include personal hygiene concerns
and personal bias. Recent adaptations have included containing the larvae in a bio-bag, which makes adoption
more feasible to those with these concerns.
Wound Infection and Bacterial Control. The management of bacterial involvement of chronic VLUs is
controversial, with limited high-quality research and contradictory results in the studies available for review. More
robust information is available for the treatment of other
infected chronic wounds, in particular diabetic foot ulcers.
This information may not translate to the treatment of
infected VLUs.
For indications and methods of wound culture, refer to
Guideline 3.4. Although there is general agreement
among experts that wounds with obvious signs of clinical
infection should be treated with systemic antibiotics, there
is no consensus on the management of wounds colonized
with bacteria or bacterial bioﬁlms without signs of systemic
infection. The deﬁnition of a critically colonized wound is
not universally standardized and may vary by the virulence
of the colonizing bacteria. The more recent description of
bacterial bioﬁlms and the multiple species that are typically
cultured from these wounds add another layer of
complexity. Finally, the changing nature of bacterial
behavior over time may render studies performed as
recently as 5 to 10 years ago irrelevant.
Developing technology, which has allowed more
detailed descriptions of the bacteria found existing in the

O’Donnell et al 27S

wound bed, employs methodology such as polymerase
chain reaction analysis