cation.
Anticoagulation and protamine reversal
In the last decade, numerous reports have documented
increased use of anticoagulation reversal with protamine

sulfate after CEA. The Vascular Study Group of Northern
New England ﬁrst noted safe use of protamine to reduce
bleeding complication without increased stroke risk.248 In
2013, the same group noted an increase in anticoagulation
reversal among their surgeon cohort with decreased incidence of bleeding and no difference with respect to MI or
stroke risk.249 A meta-analysis by Kakisis et al250 reported
a 64% risk reduction in wound hematoma without an increase in stroke risk with anticoagulation reversal. These results were corroborated by a contemporaneous metaanalysis by Newhall et al,251 showing similar favorable ﬁndings for use of protamine. Although there is no new Level 1
evidence in this area, the abundance of literature supports
reasonable use of anticoagulation reversal at the end of
CEA without an increase in perioperative stroke risk.
Summary and recommendations. In patients undergoing CEA, we suggest use of protamine sulfate
(depending on heparin dose) to reduce risk of postoperative bleeding without an increase in other perioperative
risk.
Intraoperative cerebral monitoring
The purpose of intraoperative cerebral monitoring is
to assess the need for temporary arterial shunting during the ischemic portion of the procedure while the carotid artery ﬂow is interrupted and to attempt to
predict those patients who are most likely to suffer an
ischemic postoperative event. Options for cerebral
perfusion assessment include awake testing with
local/regional anesthesia, somatosensory evoked potentials, measurement of stump pressures, TCD and
infrared spectroscopy. Although numerous reports
advocate for the overall effectiveness of each technique,59 a comprehensive review in 2011 by AbuRahma
et al,252 and review of the recent literature has not identiﬁed a predominant technique to predict adequate
cerebral perfusion.253-255
Summary and recommendations. We suggest judicious use of cerebral monitoring based on practitioner
expertise and institutional standards, particularly if no
routine shunting is used.
Shunting: routine versus selective
Based on the current literature, the