putation was made.
TcPO2 and SPP tests require more expensive equipment and greater expertise for application than other
bedside testing, which may be a barrier for centres in
low or middle income countries. Although healthcare expenditures may increase with each of these measurements, incorrect assessment of the severity of PAD can
result in inadequate treatment and poorer outcomes
with ultimately an increase in costs. Importantly, all the
aforementioned bedside tests have varying capacity to
predict likelihood of healing and of amputation, as summarised in the systematic review.6 Based on current evidence no test has convincingly been shown to perform
better than other tests as a prognostic indicator of both
healing and amputation. In the opinion of the Writing
Committee multiple tests should be used. Given the
limited available evidence on TcPO2 and SPP and their
higher costs, a Conditional Recommendation on these
two tests was made.

Recommendation 9
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, it is
suggested that the presence of peripheral artery disease and
other causes of poor healing should always be assessed. Diabetes related micro-angiopathy should not be considered the
primary cause of foot ulceration, gangrene, or poor wound
healing without excluding other causes.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. The deﬁnition of microvascular disease in
DFU and its role in wound healing are not well understood. Many clinicians have assumed that microvascular
disease is present in a high proportion of people with
DFU and that it is a major cause of delayed wound healing, often despite a lack of thorough investigation of
large vessel arterial disease. As discussed elsewhere in
this guideline, people with diabetes and a DFU
frequently have distal, lower leg obstructive atherosclerotic disease, often with involvement of the pedal

1114

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

arteries, which due to their smaller size can be difﬁcult to
image. However, advances in imaging and technology
have shown that tibial and pedal arteries are potentially
treatable by endovascular and open surgical techniques.
The term microvascular disease describes abnormalities affecting the arteriolar, capillary and venular vessels. Several studies have reported microvascular
abnormalities in the skin and