 Patient characteristics
B. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with ⱖ60%
carotid artery stenosis
1. CEA for asymptomatic lesions
2. CAS in asymptomatic lesions
3. Medical management of asymptomatic carotid
stenosis
C. Neurologically symptomatic patients with ⱖ50%
carotid artery disease
1. CEA in symptomatic stenosis
2. CAS in symptomatic stenosis
D. Meta-analysis: CEA vs CAS
● Recommendations for selecting therapy
VI. Unusual conditions associated with carotid stenosis
A. Acute neurologic syndromes
1. Management of acute stroke
a. Presentation within 0-6 hours
b. Presentation later than 6 hours
2. Stroke in evolution (fluctuating neurologic
deficits)
3. Crescendo TIA
4. Acute postintervention stroke/occlusion
● Recommendations for management of acute neurologic syndromes
B. ICA occlusion with persistent symptoms/external
carotid stenosis
● Recommendations for management of symptomatic ICA occlusion
C. Carotid dissection
● Recommendations for management of carotid dissection
D. Combined carotid and coronary disease
● Recommendations for management of combined
carotid and coronary disease
Management of extracranial carotid disease has been
the focus of intense investigation and debate by multiple
medical specialists since the introduction of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) as a therapeutic option for the treatment
and prevention of stroke more than half a century ago.
Initial hopes that CEA could reverse the clinical course of
stroke were proven false, and the role of surgical management of extracranial carotid and vertebral obstructions was
defined by one of the earliest efforts at a multicentered
randomized clinical trial, The Joint Study on The Extracranial Circulation.1 The results of this decade-long study,
involving 5000 patients, established the role of CEA in the
treatment of minor stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA),
and amaurosis fugax, confirmed that surgery had a limited

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

role in the treatment of established stroke, and established
the limited role of verte