ventionalist must provide a
speciﬁc procedure to correct the pathologic state.
In general, quality of the evidence available to support
recommendations for operative and endovascular management is mostly limited to level C evidence because of an
absence of comparative prospective RCTs of treatment
techniques, with the exception of superﬁcial venous treatments. The strength of the clinical recommendations for
operative and endovascular management can be increased
by concurrence of results from individual case series
and expert opinion of the Venous Ulcer Guidelines
Committee.
This section is predicated on the principle that deep
vein reconstruction is reserved for cases in which there
has been failure to control the ulcer diathesis by dedicated nonsurgical measures and by simpler conventional
interventions in the superﬁcial and perforator veins of
the extremity. In general, less invasive procedures are
preferred when they are available and equally effective.
Concurrence has been negatively affected because of
the evolving developmental status of open surgery for
complicated pathologic states in the deep veins of the
leg, pelvis, and abdomen and the ongoing search for
minimally invasive procedures. Within these limitations,
there is growing consensus that the endovascular stenting techniques are the most appropriate surgical treatment for iliac occlusive disease, whereas open
autogenous repair is best therapy for deep vein reﬂux in
the infrainguinal lower extremity or from failed endovenous stent procedures of the iliocaval and iliofemoral
venous system. A practical algorithm for operative and
endovascular management of patients with VLUs is proposed in the Fig.

34S O’Donnell et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Fig. Proposed algorithm for operative and endovascular treatment of patients with venous leg ulcer (VLU) based on
involved anatomic venous system and presence of venous reﬂux or obstruction. The risk-to-beneﬁt ratio is weighed for
those procedures with more risk (lower, moderate, higher) considered later in the treatment when the beneﬁt is similar.

Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Venous Leg Ulcer
Guideline 6.1 Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Active
Venous Leg UlcerdUlcer Healing
In a patient with a ven