 stent placement in the SFA.
Clinical follow-up alone, combined with ABI determination or toe pressure measurements, or both, in limb salvage
patients, and with DUS have all been proposed methods of
surveillance for catheter-based interventions. Available reports to date regarding the accuracy, predictive value, and
beneﬁts of DUS after EVT are conﬂicting. Mewissen
et al257 reported one of the earliest experiences with DUS after
balloon angioplasty of the FP artery. They demonstrated the
importance of hemodynamic assessments (ABI measurements and toe pressure measurements) in determining the degree of perfusion improvement, but these techniques could
not discriminate between restenosis or occlusion of the angioplasty site and progression of disease proximal and distal to the
treated segment. Early duplex scanning was performed at
1 month after successful FP angioplasty in 59 patients. Duplex
imaging identiﬁed <50% diameter-reducing stenosis at 63% of
angioplasty sites and >50% restenosis (Vr >2) in 27% of
treated segments. They further observed that the presence
of >50% stenosis at 30 days postintervention was predictive
of clinical failure at 1 year (P < .001). Although this study
has been used to justify surveillance and prophylactic intervention after angiography, this conclusion is questionable because
DUS was not routinely performed in all patients. Sacks et al258
found no difference in 3-year patency between patients with a
normal duplex examination at 48 hours after angioplasty
compared with those with an abnormal study (Vr >2.0),
arguing against using DUS ﬁndings as a guide for prophylactic
intervention. Spijkerboer et al259 also reported that early
DUS (1 day) ﬁndings did not correlate with clinical or
hemodynamic success 1 year after SFA-popliteal angioplasty.
In a more recent study, Humphries et al260 reported that
an abnormal duplex examination within the ﬁrst 30 days of
treatment in patients undergoing infrainguinal EVT for
CLI, was associated with an increased subsequent risk of
amputation.

