ia, and agraphesthesia. Symptoms not
typically associated with carotid territory events include
vertigo, ataxia, diplopia, visual disturbances, dysarthria,
nausea, vomiting, decreased consciousness, and weakness,
which may include quadriparesis.
The physical examination may show signs of stroke:
facial/eyelid drooping, motor or sensory deficits, and
speech disturbances. Ocular examinations can occasionally
identify Hollenhorst plaques. Neck auscultation may elicit
carotid bruit; however, the absence of a neck bruit does not
exclude the possibility of a significant carotid bifurcation
lesion. Given the incidence of significant carotid stenosis in
patients who present with stroke15,19 and the effectiveness
of CEA in reducing stroke in symptomatic patients with
⬎50% carotid stenosis,2-4 it is important to evaluate the
carotid bifurcation in every patient with symptoms of carotid territory ischemia.
Amaurosis fugax or the finding of a Hollenhorst plaque
on funduscopic examination, or both, is also correlated
with the presence of significant carotid bifurcation stenosis.
However, neither amaurosis fugax nor identification of a
Hollenhorst plaque are associated with the same stroke risk
as transient cerebral ischemia.20 Identification of carotid
stenosis in that clinical scenario implies a stroke risk somewhere between a neurologically symptomatic patient and
one who is asymptomatic.
B. Indications for imaging the neurologically
asymptomatic patient
Evaluation and treatment of patients who are neurologically asymptomatic is much more controversial. The
benefit of carotid endarterectomy for stenosis ⬎60%, although statistically significant in large trials, is much less
than for neurologically symptomatic individuals and rests
on the premise that intervention can be performed with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

minimal morbidity.5,6 Identification of these asymptomatic
patients may occur by routine screening using duplex ultrasound (DUS) imaging or selective application of DUS
imaging to high-risk individuals.
1. Screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis. To
date, there