 not possible, an entirely new conduit must
be placed.
Because a functioning autogenous access is very valuable, every attempt must be made to move the vein to a
more superficial location. Typically, this involves making an
incision along the entire length of the autogenous or transposed vein and retunneling the vein, often moving the
location of the arteriovenous anastomosis. Retunneling
may shorten the length of the conduit available for puncture. Before embarking on an operation of this magnitude,
the access should be studied to ensure that the conduit is
free from stenoses and that an additional procedure is likely
to render the access functional.
2. Nonligated side branches. Large, patent side branches
in an autogenous access may shunt blood away from the
axial vein, thereby preventing the main trunk from dilating
sufficiently to accept dialysis cannulae and to support adequate dialysis. However, before simple surgical ligation or
endoluminal coil occlusion, the main trunk must be studied
angiographically or with DU scanning to ensure that the
side branch has not dilated secondary to a stenosis in the
main trunk increasing resistance to axial flow. Such a lesion
must be addressed before side branch obliteration. Generally, these branches must be ⬎2 mm diameter to be considered significant and associated with a poorly maturing
axial vein.
Localization of the side branch can be achieved by
visual inspection, ultrasound scanning, or angiography.
Road mapping of the access and side branch facilitates
accurate marking of the side branch for either an endovascular or surgical approach. Coil embolization and surgical
ligation are equally acceptable approaches.
3. Insufficient arterial inflow. Insufficient arterial inflow as a cause for nonfunctionality is much less frequent
than venous anastomotic stenoses in prosthetic AV grafts,
representing only 3% to 5% of all stenoses identified in
hemodialysis accesses.100 Stenosis at the arterial anastomosis is the most common reason for inadequate arterial
inflow. Arterial anastomotic stenosis usually occurs as a
result of a technical error or neointimal hyperplasia. The
next most common location for arterial stenosis is an orificial stenosis of the subclavian artery, most commonly