 [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Several techniques are used to fashion an incompetent
valve into a competent valve. External banding refers to a
synthetic sleeve placed around the circumference of a valve
to reduce the vein circumference and to produce a competent valve. External valvuloplasty is the technique of placing
sutures along the valve attachment line of the intact vein to
decrease the vein diameter with or without actually engaging
the valve leaﬂets. The commissural angle is decreased with or
without actual leaﬂet tightening to allow the valve cusps to
properly appose and to prevent valve prolapse. Internal valvuloplasty requires open venotomy to allow direct visualization of the valve leaﬂets so that sutures can be accurately
placed to reef or pull the cusps into alignment and to reduce
redundancy until a competent valve has been restored.
External banding can achieve acceptable results in wellselected patients with early vein dilation. Long-term ulcer
healing has been reported in about 50% of patients with
one valve repair, and improved long-term results have
been reported with multiple reconstructions.378-381
External valvuloplasty results vary by technique, with
the advocates of the “commissural repair” reporting a competency rate of w60% and freedom from ulcer recurrence
rate of w70% at 3 years.382 Others have reported lower
competency (down to 32%) and ulcer-free rates (down to
50%) at 2 years. Proper patient selection is a critical variable
in the results obtained. Overall, this technique appears
applicable and effective in select patients, with expectations
of a 50% ulcer-free rate at 2 years.377-380,383-390
Internal valvuloplasty is an anatomically precise technique that has been modiﬁed over time. Although internal
valvuloplasty provides the longest durability, it is technically
more demanding and highly operator dependent. This technique is subject to higher complication rates than external repairs. Serial case series have demonstrated valve competency
rates of 60% to 70% at 5 to 8 years and similar ulcer-free rates
(Table X).368,377,39