enous vein and a palpable femoral pulse, an autogenous femoral– great saphenous lower extremity transposition is performed, either in a loop or straight configuration.
Alternatively, in patients with a palpable posterior or anterior tibial artery pulse, either tibial artery may be used as
inflow to create an autogenous tibial– great saphenous
lower extremity direct access.
In patients without an adequate great saphenous vein,
the femoral vein (previously named superficial femoral
vein) is an appropriate alternative source of autogenous
conduit. Similar to the great saphenous vein, the femoral
vein is located too medial and deep for usable dialysis
access, and transpositions are always required. Obstructive
complications are minimized when the vein harvest is lim-

Sidawy et al 9S

ited to the anatomic segment proximal to the popliteal vein.
The femoral artery remains the source of inflow and must
be palpable. Therefore, in patients with an adequate femoral vein and a palpable femoral pulse, an autogenous femoral artery–femoral vein lower extremity transposition is
performed, either in straight or loop configuration.
If no lower extremity vein, including the great saphenous
or femoral, is available, a lower extremity prosthetic access is
performed. The common femoral artery can provide the
source of inflow and must be palpable. Therefore, in a patient
with no adequate lower extremity vein and a palpable
common femoral artery pulse, a prosthetic femoral–femoral
(vein) lower extremity looped access is performed. It is
especially important to limit the size of the anastomosis (4
to 6 mm) to the femoral artery to minimize the risk of
significant steal/ischemia and potential limb threat. This is
easily accomplished by tapering the large vein to the desired
diameter with a running suture.
Body wall. After both upper and lower extremities use
has been exhausted, body wall access can be used as an
alternative access site.71 Body wall access usually requires
use of a prosthetic graft, and its use is left as a last alternative. Sources of venous outflow include the axillary, internal
jug