institutional retrospective series of nonoperative RAA
surveillance found no difference in growth rate based
on aneurysm morphology or calciï¬cation.14 These authors also reported the successful surveillance of 88 aneurysms measuring 2 to 3 cm and 7 aneurysms
measuring >3 cm without complication or rupture.
The revised 3-cm size threshold for repair is based on
limited literature, however, making this a Grade 2C
conditional recommendation where variation in care
is acceptable on the basis of individualized clinical decision-making.
It is unclear based on the current literature whether
branch aneurysms or saccular aneurysms behave differently, but classic teaching associates such aneurysm
morphology with a more aggressive risk of rupture. As
such, they might merit invasive treatment regardless of
size.

2. Size criteria and alternative indications for intervention
Recommendations for indications for intervention in RAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

In patients with noncomplicated RAA of acceptable operative risk, we suggest
treatment for aneurysm size >3 cm.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

2.2

We recommend emergent intervention for any size RAA resulting in patient symptoms
or rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.3

In patients of childbearing potential with noncomplicated RAA of acceptable operative
risk, we suggest treatment regardless of size.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

2.4

In patients with medically refractory hypertension and functionally important renal
artery stenosis, we suggest treatment regardless of size.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Previous guidelines have suggested the repair of most
visceral artery aneurysms >2 cm in maximum diameter.26 Whereas no prospective or randomized trial
directly compares operative repair of intermediate
RAAs >2 cm with surveillance, the natural history of
these aneurysms appears more benign than historic
rates have suggested, with lower associated risks of
rupture, slow to null rates of growth, and improved survival after rupture apparent from more contemporary
series.
The natural history of RAAs appears to be that of slow or
no growth.27 Contemporary reports do not support historic series that described rupture rates as high as 14%
to 30