 SMA after mobilizing the
duodenum.
Future research
Deﬁne the optimal, open technique for revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the optimal perioperative care for patients undergoing open revascularization for CMI
d

Surveillance and remediation
Recommendations.
1. We suggest patient education and counseling about
recurrent symptoms in all patients undergoing revascularization for CMI owing to the high rate of recurrence. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. Patients should be followed in the outpatient setting
after revascularization for CMI. A possible follow-up
schedule includes within 1 month of the procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then
annually thereafter. (Ungraded Good Practice
Statement)
3. We suggest surveillance with mesenteric DUS to identify recurrent stenoses after revascularization for CMI.
A possible ultrasound surveillance schedule includes
within 1 month of the procedure and then biannually
for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then annually. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
4. We recommend performing a CTA or catheter-based
arteriograms to conﬁrm any restenoses detected by
DUS imaging in patients with symptoms consistent
with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
5. In patients with recurrent symptoms of CMI, we
recommend remedial treatment as recommended
for the de novo lesions. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select patients with asymptomatic recurrent stenosis, we suggest a shared decision-making approach
between the patient and provider to discuss revascularization as recommended for the de novo lesions.
Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low)
7. We suggest that the choice of revascularization for
recurrent stenoses should be similar to the de novo lesions with the endovascular approach recommended
as the initial option and open revascularization

reserved for lesions not amenable to the endovascular
approach. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Rationale and background
Patients may develop recurrent stenoses and/or recurrent symptoms after both endovascular and open revascular