 patients with
chronic venous disease. The basic CEAP classification is used for
clinical practice, and the full CEAP classification system is used for
clinical research.
We recommend that primary venous disorders, including simple
varicose veins, be differentiated from secondary venous
insufficiency and from congenital venous disorders because the
three conditions differ in pathophysiology and management.
7. Outcome assessment
We recommend that the revised Venous Clinical Severity Score is
used for assessment of clinical outcome after therapy for varicose
veins and more advanced chronic venous disease.
We recommend that a quality-of-life assessment is performed with a
disease-specific instrument to evaluate patient-reported outcome
and the severity of chronic venous disease.
We recommend duplex scanning for follow-up of patients after
venous procedures who have symptoms or recurrence of varicose
veins.
We recommend reporting procedure-related minor and major
complications after therapy.
8. Medical therapy
We suggest venoactive drugs (diosmin, hesperidin, rutosides,
sulodexide, micronized purified flavonoid fraction, or horse
chestnut seed extract [aescin]) in addition to compression for
patients with pain and swelling due to chronic venous disease, in
countries where these drugs are available.
We suggest using pentoxifylline or micronized purified flavonoid
fraction, if available, in combination with compression, to
accelerate healing of venous ulcers.
9. Compression therapy
We suggest compression therapy using moderate pressure (20 to 30
mm Hg) for patients with symptomatic varicose veins.
We recommend against compression therapy as the primary
treatment of symptomatic varicose veins in patients who are
candidates for saphenous vein ablation.
We recommend compression as the primary therapeutic modality for
healing venous ulcers.
We recommend compression as an adjuvant treatment to superficial
vein ablation for the prevention of ulcer recurrence.
10. Open venous surgery
For treatment of the incompetent great saphenous vein, we suggest
high ligation and inversion stripping of the saphenous vein to the
level of the knee.
To reduce hematoma formation, pain, and swelling, we recommend
postoperative compression. The recommended period of
compression in C2 patients is 1 week.

GRADE of
recommendation

