
largest single cause of misinterpretation of data.28 This
process has been further stated in the recent Institute of
Medicine document: “Hence, critically appraised and synthesized scientiﬁc evidence has become fundamental to
clinical practice. At the same time, and particularly under
conditions of uncertainty regarding optimal decisions,
clinician experiential knowledge and skill (the “art of medicine”) and patient values and preferences remain essential
contributors to quality healthcare practice, in a complex
interplay with science.”25
The Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee was organized through cooperation between the SVS and AVF.
The Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee was divided
into six sub-committee sections each headed by a chair:
diagnosis; compression; surgery/endovascular; wound
care; ancillary; and prevention. The overall committee
then developed a series of key clinical questions to guide
the overall approach for the guideline document: (1)
What is the best treatment for active (CEAP C6) venous ulcer? (2) What is the best treatment for healed venous ulcer
(CEAP C5)? (3) What is the best method for preventing
recurrence of venous ulcers? and (4) Can progression
from CEAP C4 to CEAP C6/C5 be prevented? The
Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee addressed the optimal
approach to be used for their speciﬁc section from four general approaches: (1) de novo development, in which a
completely novel recommendation is developed from a systematic and meta-analysis review of the literature; (2) build
on existing guidelines with a complementary full-literature
search update; (3) adapt guidelines from existing guidelines;
and (4) total adoption of existing guidelines.18 The need for
a systematic and meta-analysis review was determined by
each section team and then agreed on by the entire committee. Each section was categorized by the type of guideline
development required. All guidelines were developed by
building on existing guidelines with a complementary literature search by the section sub-committee.
In this process of guideline development for VLUs, the
Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee also reviewed prior

O’Donnell et al 13S

published consensus documents and the AVF report from
the 2006 Venous Summit and the 2009 Paciﬁc Vascular
Symposium