 while at the same time
ensuring that resources are used in an optimal manner.
Specialty societies, as in the current SVS and AVF guideline,
develop clinical practice guidelines either by independent
review of available studies or by employing evidence from
technology assessments and other published guidelines. For
the development of comprehensive clinical practice guidelines on VLUs that would be of value to providers and the
health care system in general, an expert panel needs to
evaluate the efﬁcacy of individual wound care dressings,
surgery, or compression products, as demonstrated in randomized controlled trials (RCTs). In addition, large case
series and expert opinion are also used as evidence, although
of lower quality. The value of these clinical practice guidelines on VLUs is that they sift through the massive amount
of data surrounding the management of VLU and provide a
consensus on the evidence, thereby streamlining resources.18
Survey of the Use of Venous Leg Ulcer Guidelines
by Various Health Care Systems. Whereas there are
obvious advantages to the development and use of guidelines on VLU, implementation can be a challenge. Such
“best practices” can be construed as antithetical to the autonomy of clinical practitioners, who make decisions on
the basis of individual patients. These factors may prevent total “buy in” by physicians. Moreover, a set of guidelines can
be interpreted as instituting the rigid perspectives of policy
makers on health care delivery for a speciﬁc disease process.
To determine the current status of implementation of guidelines or a speciﬁc best practices protocol for the management
of VLUs, several large health care systems in the United
States as well as in Canada and Europe were surveyed.18
Vascular units in these facilities were queried on whether a
speciﬁc set of guidelines or protocols was uniformly applied
for two conditions: (1) the treatment of VLU and (2) the
prevention of a post-thrombotic limb. This survey demonstrated that guidelines for VLU care are infrequently used by
a select group of academic health care systems in the United
States (20%), but the majority of single-payer systems in
Canada and Europe (82%) employed a VLU guideline. By
contrast, the use of guidelines for the prevention of the postthrombotic limb after deep venous thrombosis (DVT) was
comparable between the