 planning. Consideration of the
patient’s dominant arm or incapacitation of one extremity
from a previous stroke may influence, but not dictate, an
AV access decision. Placement of an autogenous AV access
is particularly important in patients with chronic infections,
recurrent skin diseases, and immunosuppression. Finally,
the patient’s overall medical condition, social support
structure, and life expectancy should be considered when
considering long-term vascular access.
Physical examination specific to vascular access selection. Patients with forearm eczema or extensive solar keratosis and those older patients with particularly thin and
fragile skin may be better suited to upper arm autogenous
AV access. Neurologic examination should record the presence of neuropathy and describe motor or sensory abnormalities. Evidence of congestive heart failure, such as neck
vein distension, should be addressed and cardiac function
maximized before surgery.
Unfortunately, most individuals in the United States
begin chronic dialysis through a central venous dialysis
catheter. The site and location of these existing and previous catheters should be recorded. In addition, defibrillators
and pacemakers often use the subclavian vein and are even
more likely to be associated with clinically important central
venous stenosis or occlusion. If permanent access is planned
on the side of a previous central catheter, imaging of the
central veins may be needed because any significant stenoses may produce venous hypertension due to markedly
increased venous blood flow from an upper extremity AV
access.51
Arterial examination. The experienced surgeon’s examination, including identification of healthy brachial, radial, and ulnar arteries, is the single most important aspect
of arterial inflow evaluation. Palpation of healthy vessels
should find the arteries soft, easily compressible, and their
pulse equal bilaterally. The Allen’s test confirms a patent

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

palmar arch and is particularly important when an autogenous AV access at the wrist is planned. Bilateral extremity
blood pressures should be recorded and found to be equal.
Sites of previous arterial catheters or arterial donations for
coronary artery bypass grafting should be identified; the
radial artery harvested for coronary revascularization is
identified by the characteristic longitudinal incision over
the anterior aspect of the forearm.