SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY DOCUMENT
Editors’ Choice
Guidelines for hospital privileges in vascular surgery and
endovascular interventions: Recommendations of the
Society for Vascular Surgery
Keith D. Calligaro, MD,a Kwame S. Amankwah, MD,b Marcus D’Ayala, MD,c O. William Brown, MD,d
Paul Steven Collins, MD,e Mohammad H. Eslami, MD, MPH,f Krishna M. Jain, MD,g Daniel S. Kassavin, MD,h
Brandon Propper, MD,i Timur P. Sarac, MD,j William P. Shutze, MD,k and Thomas H. Webb, MD,l Philadelphia
and Pittsburgh, Pa; Syracuse and Brooklyn, NY; Royal Oak and Kalamazoo, Mich; St. Petersburg, Fla; Norwalk and
Columbus, Ohio; San Antonio and Plano, Tex; and Indianapolis, Ind

ABSTRACT

The Hospital Privileges Practice Guideline Writing Group of the Society for Vascular Surgery is making the following ﬁve
recommendations concerning guidelines for hospital privileges for vascular surgery and endovascular therapy. Advanced
endovascular procedures are currently entrenched in the everyday practice of specialized vascular interventionalists,
including vascular surgeons, but open vascular surgery remains uniquely essential to the specialty. First, we endorse the
Residency Review Committee for Surgery recommendations regarding open and endovascular cases during vascular
residency and fellowship training. Second, applicants for new hospital privileges wishing to perform vascular surgery
should have completed an Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education-accredited vascular surgery residency
or fellowship or American Osteopathic Association-accredited training program before 2020 and should obtain American Board of Surgery certiﬁcation in vascular surgery or American Osteopathic Association certiﬁcation within 7 years of
completion of their training. Third, we recommend that applicants for renewal of hospital privileges in vascular surgery
include physicians who are board certiﬁed in vascular surgery, general surgery, or cardiothoracic surgery. These physicians
with an established practice in vascular surgery should participate in Maintenance of Certiﬁcation programs as
established by the American Board of Surgery and maintain their respective board certiﬁcation. Fourth, we provide
recommendations concerning guidelines for endovascular procedures for vascular surgeons and other vascular interventionalists who are applying for new or renewed hospital privileges. All physicians performing open