 a central mechanism, as in iliocaval obstruction or
elevated inferior vena cava pressure from advanced truncal
obesity. The mere existence of either reﬂux or obstruction
does not appear to be the full cause of venous ulcers, with
additional biochemical factors due to activation of the inﬂammatory cascade, which may act as the inciting factor
for appearance of the actual ulcer. Identiﬁcation of these
additional factors awaits further advances in the basic
sciences.
At the clinical level, venous ulcers occur as “pure”
venous causes, when there is directed axial great saphenous vein reﬂux or incompetent perforator reﬂux directly
into the ulcer bed, or as “mixed” venous plus other
causes, as in cases in which arterial ischemia, scarred tissue of the gaiter area, hypersensitive skin, lymphedema,
autoimmune disease, local trauma, infection, and other
processes coexist with the venous hypertension. The

Guideline 2.1: Venous Anatomy Nomenclature
We recommend use of the International Consensus
Committee on Venous Anatomical Terminology for
standardized venous anatomy nomenclature. [BEST
PRACTICE]
The deep veins of the lower limbs are located in the
deep compartment of the leg bound by the muscle fascia
and accompany the main arteries of the leg and pelvis. Superﬁcial veins of the lower limbs are those located between
the deep fascia covering the muscles of the limb and the
skin and primarily included the saphenous system. Perforating veins pass through the deep muscle fascia and connect the superﬁcial to the deep venous system.
Communicating veins connect veins within the same
system.
Whereas there is general agreement that veins of the
lower extremities be divided into superﬁcial, deep, and
perforating venous systems, there have been deﬁciencies
in the past in nomenclature for speciﬁc veins in the leg
within each system. In response to variability in
anatomic terminology used for venous anatomy, standard anatomic venous terminology has been developed
and adopted. For practitioners caring for patients with
VLUs, correct standardized venous nomenclature
should be used as deﬁned by the 2002 International
Consensus Committee