b) undergo prompt
surgical or endovascular PAA repair, with the use of
adjunctive surgical thromboembolectomy or pharmacomechanical intervention to maximize tibiopedal
outﬂow. Nonviable limbs (Rutherford grade III) require
amputation. Level of recommendation: grade 1
(strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate)
6. We recommend that patients who undergo OPAR or
EPAR should be followed up using clinical examination, ABI, and DUS at 3, 6, and 12 months during the
ﬁrst postoperative year and, if stable, annually thereafter. In addition to DUS evaluation of the repair, the
aneurysm sac should be evaluated for evidence of
enlargement. If abnormalities are found on clinical examination, ABI, or DUS, appropriate clinical management according to the lower extremity endovascular
or open bypass guidelines should be undertaken.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality
of evidence: B (moderate). If compressive symptoms
or symptomatic aneurysm sac expansion are noted,
we suggest surgical decompression of the aneurysm
sac. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: C (low)
7. We suggest that patients with an asymptomatic PAA
who are not offered repair should be monitored annually for changes in symptoms, pulse examination,
extent of thrombus, patency of the outﬂow arteries,
and aneurysm diameter. Level of recommendation:
grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C (low)

Popliteal artery aneurysms (PAAs) are the most common peripheral arterial aneurysms, deﬁned as aneurysms outside the aortoiliac system or the brain,
accounting for 70% of all peripheral arterial aneurysms.1
They are more common in men (95%)2,3 and tend to
occur in the sixth and seventh decades of life.1 Few modern studies have been performed on the natural history
of PAAs, and many of these were retrospective reviews
of surgical patients. As such, the timing and details of
PAA management remain nuanced.
The popliteal artery begins as the superﬁcial femoral artery emerges from the adductor hiatus. It courses behind
the knee enveloped