 at this point, there are no compelling data to favor
endovascular interventions over supervised exercise for
treatment of IC in patients who are candidates for both
forms of therapy.
Given its efﬁcacy as primary therapy, it is not surprising
that a number of small trials have suggested the beneﬁt of
exercise as an adjunct to percutaneous or open interventions performed for treatment of IC. A randomized trial
of 70 patients treated with a percutaneous intervention primarily but not exclusively for AIOD demonstrated the
addition of supervised exercise therapy to a percutaneous

intervention improved absolute claudication distance at
6 months compared with percutaneous intervention
alone.118 Exercise therapy may also be beneﬁcial after
bypass surgery. In a small randomized study of 14 patients
with IC comparing infrainguinal lower extremity bypass
alone vs bypass with the addition of supervised exercise,
the investigators found a signiﬁcant increase in maximal
walking distance with the addition of exercise to bypass.119
In an older study, 75 patients with IC were randomly allocated treatment to surgical reconstruction alone, surgical
reconstruction with the addition of supervised training,
and supervised exercise alone. The surgical reconstructions
were relatively evenly split between aortoiliac reconstructions and infrainguinal reconstructions, with three multilevel reconstructions and 23 bilateral reconstructions.
Symptom-free and maximal walking distance were
improved in all three groups, with the greatest improvement in the patients treated with the combination of
open surgical reconstruction and supervised exercise
therapy.120

Recommendations: Exercise therapy

4.12.

4.13.

4.14.
4.15.

We recommend as ﬁrst-line therapy a supervised exercise program consisting of
walking a minimum of three times per week (30-60 min/session) for at least
12 weeks to all suitable patients with IC.
We recommend home-based exercise, with a goal of at least 30 minutes of walking
three to ﬁve times per week when a supervised exercise program is unavailable or for
long-term beneﬁt after a supervised exercise program is completed.
In patients who have undergone revascularization therapy for IC, we recommend
exercise (either supervised or home based) for adjunctive functional beneﬁts.
We recommend that patients with IC be followed up annually to assess compliance