ascular approach might be a
reason to opt for this treatment when an urgent revascularisation is needed or when the surgical risk is deemed
too high. For these reasons and the moderate certainty
of the evidence a Conditional Recommendation was
made.
In people with diabetes in whom a revascularisation is
considered but who do not have a suitable single
segment GSV for bypass surgery, the results in BEST-CLI
were similar for endovascular and surgical bypass. This
statement is in line with the results of the systematic review, in which the non-randomised and observational
studies showed that the evidence was inadequate to
establish whether an endovascular, open, or hybrid revascularisation technique is superior. Each of these techniques has its advantages and disadvantages. A
successful distal venous bypass can result in a marked

increase of blood ﬂow to the foot, but general, spinal,
or epidural anaesthesia is usually necessary and a suitable vein, as a bypass conduit, should be present, as in
the BEST-CLI trial. An endovascular procedure has
several logistical advantages, but sometimes, very complex interventions are necessary to obtain adequate
blood ﬂow in the foot and a failed endovascular intervention may lead to worse outcomes when an open procedure is performed subsequently.112 Over the past few
decades, there have been signiﬁcant advances in endovascular techniques; however, parallel to this, there
have been improvements in anaesthesia and perioperative care that have helped improve surgical outcomes. As there is no one size ﬁts all approach to treatment for people with diabetes, PAD, and foot
ulceration or gangrene, it is important that a treating
centre has the expertise and facilities to provide a range
of treatment options with availability of both endovascular and open techniques. It is recommended that for
each person requiring lower limb revascularisation, all
revascularisation techniques should be considered
(Fig. 2).
Clinical question
In people with diabetes, PAD, and either a foot ulcer or
gangrene, how does direct angiosome revascularisation
compare with indirect angiosome revascularisation?

Recommendation 19
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene, revascularisation procedures should aim to
restore in line blood ﬂow to at least one of