 and Vertebral Artery Disease.”4 However,
since these documents came out, four large, randomized trials have been published that compared the efﬁcacy of CAS and CEA in management of extracranial
carotid stenosis.5-9 This led the European Society for
Vascular Surgery to update its guidelines, “Management
of Atherosclerotic Carotid and Vertebral Artery Disease”
in 2017.10 Similarly, the SVS felt an update of its 2011
document was needed.
Accordingly, the SVS selected a writing group consisting of leaders in vascular surgery with a major interest
in this ﬁeld. The group met in person and on several conference calls to identify the most important and/or
controversial issues and questions it felt were of major interest to practicing clinicians and other specialists, and
these issues are addressed in the revised Clinical Practice
Guidelines. To support the guideline, a systematic review
and meta-analysis was conducted by the Mayo Clinic Evidence Practice Center to address these issues, and these
will be published separately in the Journal of Vascular
Surgery. The following ﬁve issues/questions are
addressed:
1. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy
for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in low surgical risk
patients?
2. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral CAS in low
surgical risk patients for symptomatic carotid artery
stenosis of greater than 50%?
3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention in
patients presenting with acute stroke?
4. Screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic
patients
A. Is screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis recommended in the general population?
B. Is screening for carotid stenosis recommended for
high-risk asymptomatic patients?
C. What imaging test is best for screening for carotid
stenosis in asymptomatic patients?
5. What is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid and coronary artery
disease?
These questions are addressed in a separate Clinical
Practice Guidelines document.
However, there are several additional topics in the management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease which
the writing group felt needed to be updated. This
Comprehensive Implementation Document was prepared to address those topics.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Ab