
CAS has the advantage of percutaneous access and
should be performed under local anesthesia with
conscious sedation because local anesthesia reduces
risk of cardiac complications and allows for continuous
neurologic monitoring.238,364,365
Transfemoral access. CAS is commonly performed via
a retrograde transfemoral approach using 5F to 9F access sheath in a right-handed operator. This approach
is advantageous in that the femoral artery can accommodate larger diameter devices. Duplex ultrasound examination should be used to guide access to the
common femoral artery. Micropuncture (5F) access is
used for initial access and exchanged to 0.035 access
with a 90-cm 6F sheath (Cook Medical, Bloomington,
Ind). The patient is subsequently heparinized before any
arch instrumentation to keep an activated clotting time
of greater than 250 and up to 300 seconds. An aortic
arch angiogram using long pigtail catheter and 45 left
anterior oblique projection is useful in identifying and
cannulating the ostia of the great vessels.366 Roadmap or
overlay techniques are useful to guide access into the
major vessels’ origin. An arch angiogram may not be
necessary when preoperative CTA or MRA is available.
Several catheters are available for selecting the CCA. The
most common are JB1 or vertebral shape catheters for
simple arch anatomy and VTEK or SIM2 catheters for
complex arch anatomy. In general, a double curved

58S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

catheter is used for carotid cannulation. A cervical carotid angiogram is performed through the catheter to
conﬁrm selection of the CCA. A glide wire is advanced
into the mid CCA. Some catheters are compatible with
the 6F guiding sheath, which allow for telescoping the
sheath over the catheter and the glide wire without exchange to dilator. The sheath is advanced into the mid to
distal CCA, avoiding the lesion. The use of a stiff wire into
the ECA may facilitate advancing the sheath into the
mid/distal CCA