
With respect to antiplatelet therapy, there also are no
randomized clinical trials assessing the beneﬁt of aspirin
vs dual therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel for patients
undergoing CAS. Current recommendations are therefore largely based on experience with coronary artery
stents. Dual antiplatelet therapy including aspirin
(325 mg) and clopidogrel (75 mg) should be initiated
before CAS, and continued for 4 weeks after the procedure.166 There is no evidence to indicate that continuing
clopidogrel beyond four weeks improves coronary
outcomes.167
Summary and recommendations
1. In patients with arteriosclerotic arterial disease, we
recommend aggressive antihypertensive therapy.
2. In severely hypertensive patients undergoing CEA, we
recommend aggressive blood pressure lowering.
3. In severely hypertensive patients undergoing carotid
artery stent procedures, we recommend aggressive
blood pressure lowering.
4. In patients with known atherosclerotic disease, we
recommend reducing LDL levels with lipid-lowering
agents.
5. In patients with a prior history of stroke or TIA, we
recommend statin therapy.
6. In patients without a prior history of cardiovascular
disease, we recommend statins in the primary prevention of fatal and nonfatal strokes.
7. In active smokers, we recommend complete smoking
cessation.
8. In active smokers, we recommend pharmacologic
treatment in addition to counseling to achieve smoking cessation.
9. In patients with symptomatic carotid artery disease,
we recommend antiplatelet therapy with aspirin for
secondary prevention.
10. In patients with a history of noncardiogenic TIAs or
stroke, we do not recommend anticoagulation over
aspirin therapy.
11. In patients with a history of stroke or TIAs within
6 months, we recommend dual antiplatelet therapy
with aspirin and dipyridamole.
12. In patients with a history of TIAs or minor stroke within
24 hours, we also recommend dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel over aspirin alone
as an alternative to aspirin and dipyridamole.
13. In patients with increased cardiac risk factors undergoing noncardiac surgery, we recommend starting
beta blockade therapy. If not currently on the medication, it should