 This pressure is influenced by anything
that causes restriction of flow to the pump: the needle
gauge and length, the diameter and length of the blood
line, needle position in the access, and access blood flow.
After any needle or tubing problem has been checked as the
possible cause of unexpected increasingly negative arterial
dialysis pressure and corrected, inadequate access flow,
which is the most common cause of persistently elevated
prepump arterial pressure, will be the likely cause.
New autogenous accesses, which have a high incidence
of failure to mature, almost always have an access flow
problem that is on the arterial side of the venous needle and
therefore will be identified by an excessively negative arterial dialysis pressure (ADP). In addition, most of the flowrestricting lesions in dysfunctional radial– cephalic as well as
some other autogenous accesses, are likewise present on the
arterial side of the venous needle and are often identified by
increasingly negative ADPs. Therefore, routinely checking
the ADP at every dialysis session is critically important in
evaluating function in autogenous accesses, especially new
ones.
4. Duplex ultrasound imaging. DU imaging can assess
the access for both anatomic as well as flow abnormalities
that may represent significant stenosis. This test requires
measuring the peak systolic velocity (PSV) at the graft
venous anastomosis and at any other area of visual stenosis.99 A ratio of PSV ⱖ2.0 at the stenotic site compared
with the PSV immediately upstream is used to diagnose
stenosis, with a positive predictive value of 80% for significant graft stenosis.87 It is possible to measure the volume
flow through the graft, but that measurement is less accurate than the flow surveillance technique previously described. In general, DU imaging requires expensive equipment, a trained technician, and is not typically performed in
the dialysis unit. The increasing availability of portable
laptop based systems may alter this in the future. However,
DU imaging is currently not an easily accessible or a costeffective method for routine access surveillance.
Finally, abnormalities related to the dialysis session
have a 69% positive predictive value for significant stenosis.
Within this last category, the predictive value of prolonged
bleeding from the needle sites is 76%, difficulty with can-

Sid