anterior accessory great saphenous vein, and in
the small saphenous vein at the saphenopopliteal
junction or proximal calf. Images of both normal
and abnormal ﬁndings should be documented in
the records of the patient.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.4. We recommend the use of the 2020 upgraded CEAP
classiﬁcation system for chronic venous disorders.

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

233

Volume 11, Number 2

The clinical or basic CEAP classiﬁcation can be used
for clinical practice, and the full CEAP classiﬁcation
system should be used for clinical research.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement

GUIDELINE 2.
2.1.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the great or small saphenous
vein, who are candidates for intervention, we
recommend superﬁcial venous intervention over
long-term compression stockings.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2.1.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the anterior accessory or posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, who are candidates for intervention, we suggest superﬁcial
venous intervention over compression stockings.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.1.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the superﬁcial truncal veins, we suggest compression therapy for primary treatment if
the patient’s ambulatory status and underlying
medical conditions warrant a conservative approach
or, if the patient prefers conservative treatment, for
either a trial period or deﬁnitive management.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.2.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the great saphenous vein, who are
candidates for intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over high ligation
and stripping of the great saphenous vein because