 are divided into six generations before reaching the small venous network. In
regions where incompetence existed in microvalves out
to the third-generation tributary (the boundary), the
resin (resin injected by retrograde corrosion casting)
was able to penetrate deeper into the microvenous networks of the dermis. In limbs with varicose veins and
venous ulcers, reﬂux into the small venous networks
and capillary loops was more extensive with more dense
networks and greater tortuosity. In addition to superﬁcial axial saphenous vein insufﬁciency, microvalve insufﬁciency also existed, and once it compromised the
third-generation set of microvalves, there was a greater
risks for the development of dermal venous ulceration.
These ﬁndings may help explain why some patients
with long-standing varicose veins do not develop venous
ulcers because the microvalves may be intact at the
third-generation network, preventing clinical deterioration. In addition, these ﬁndings may explain why skin
changes consistent with venous disease (hyperpigmentation and even small skin ulceration) are seen clinically in
patients with normal ﬁndings on duplex ultrasound of
the superﬁcial, deep, and perforator venous systems.
Further research on the factors responsible for initiating
the altered shear stress and stretch on vein walls will
make it possible to have speciﬁc pharmaceutical targets
to restore the integrity of the microcirculation, to treat
the spectrum of CVD, and to prevent progression of
VLUs.
Metabolic abnormalities may be critical to venous
dysfunction and lead to disease. Metabonomics is the
study of metabolism in biologic systems in response to
pathophysiologic stimuli and genetic modiﬁcations. In
patients with varicose veins, there are signiﬁcant differences in three important metabolic products; creatine,
lactate, and myoinositol metabolites are increased and
amounts of lipid metabolites are lower compared with
nonvaricose control veins.89 Analysis of the cellular
metabolism in varicose veins, with signature end products, reﬂects the metabolism of the tissue and provides
key information to the disease processes. Further
research in this exciting ﬁeld is necessary to have a better understanding