 suggest that the splenic
artery does not routinely require preservation or revascularization. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.5: In treatment of distal SAA adjacent to the hilum of
the spleen, we suggest open surgical techniques
including possible splenectomy as opposed to endovascular methods, given concern for the possibility of endorgan ischemia, including splenic infarction and pancreatitis. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.6: In pregnant women with SAA, treatment decisions
should be individualized regardless of size, and the potential morbidity to both the mother and fetus should
be considered. (Ungraded best practice statement.)
4.1: We suggest screening of patients with SAAs for
other intra-abdominal, intrathoracic, intracranial, and peripheral artery aneurysms. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.1: In patients in whom an SAA is being observed with
a nonoperative or noninterventional approach, we suggest annual surveillance with computed tomography or
ultrasound to assess for growth in size. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.2: After endovascular intervention for SAAs, we
suggest periodic surveillance with computed tomography angiography, ultrasound, or magnetic resonance
angiography to assess for the possibility of endoleak or
other continued aneurysm perfusion that could lead
to a continued risk of aneurysm growth or rupture.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
Celiac artery aneurysm (CAA). 1.1 We suggest computed
tomography angiography (CTA) as the initial diagnostic
tool of choice for CAAs. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2 We suggest magnetic resonance angiography in patients with suspected CAA and pre-existing renal insufﬁciency limiting the use of iodinated contrast material.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).

1.3 We suggest arteriography when noninvasive studies
have not