 on clinical and functional
end points. A systematic review of five recently published
cohort studies and seven unpublished case series by
O’Donnell356 found a mean occlusion rate of 80% and a
mean follow-up of ⬍2 months.
Ultrasonographically guided sclerotherapy is gaining
rapid acceptance because perforating veins can be accessed
easily with a small needle without much pain to the patient.
Masuda et al351 reported clinical results with ultrasonographically guided sclerotherapy using morrhuate sodium
in 80 limbs with predominantly perforator incompetence
alone. The authors noticed a significant improvement in
VCSS, and ulcers rapidly healed in 86.5%, with a mean time
to heal of 36 days. The ulcer recurrence rate was 32% at a
mean of 20 months despite low compliance (15%) with
compression hose. New and recurrent perforators were
identified in 33% of limbs, and ulcer recurrence was statis-

tically associated with perforator recurrence as well as presence of postthrombotic syndrome.
Conclusions. Current data do not support adding
perforator ablation to ablation of the superficial system in
patients with simple varicose veins,361,362 and the Committee recommends against treatment of perforators in patients with CEAP class C2 disease (GRADE 1B). In patients
with advanced CVI, current data provide moderate evidence that large (ⱖ3.5 mm), high-volume, incompetent
“pathologic” perforators (reflux ⱖ500 ms), located in the
affected area of the limb with outward flow on duplex
scanning in patients with class C5 or C6 disease, can be
treated by experienced interventionists, unless the deep
veins are obstructed (GRADE 2B).22,56,87 Clinical data on
the efficacy of perforator ablations were obtained primarily
by using the SEPS procedure, but ultrasonographically
guided sclerotherapy or thermal ablations, when performed
with similar low complication rates, can be suggested as
alternative therapy for perforator treatment (GRADE 2C).
Pelvic varicosity and pelvic congestion syndrome
Valvular incompetence and retrograde flow to the ovarian veins and/or the internal iliac vein and its tribut