 traced to its
source, including the saphenous junctions, truncal
or perforating veins, or pelvic origin varicose veins.
The study should be interpreted by a physician
trained in venous duplex ultrasound interpretation.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.3.1. We recommend that a complete duplex ultrasound
scanning examination for venous reﬂux in the lower
extremities should include transverse grayscale images without and with transducer compression of
the common femoral, proximal, mid, and distal
femoral and popliteal veins, saphenofemoral junction, and great and small saphenous veins.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.3.2. We recommend that a complete duplex ultrasound scanning examination for venous reﬂux in
the lower extremities should include measurement
of the spectral Doppler waveform using calipers.
Reﬂux at baseline and in response to a Valsalva maneuver or distal augmentation in the common
femoral vein and at the saphenofemoral junction
and in response to distal augmentation in the
mid-femoral and popliteal vein, the great saphenous vein at the proximal thigh and knee, the anterior accessory great saphenous vein and small
saphenous vein, and at saphenopopliteal junction
or proximal calf should be documented.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.3.3. We recommend that a complete duplex ultrasound
scanning examination for venous reﬂux in the lower
extremities should include diameter measurements in patients with the leg in the dependent position, from the anterior to the posterior wall, at the
saphenofemoral junction, in the great saphenous
vein at the proximal thigh and at the knee, in the
anterior accessory great saphenous vein, and in
the small saphenous vein at the saphenopopliteal
junction or proximal calf. Images of both normal
and abnormal ﬁndings should be documented in
the records of the patient.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.4. We recommend the use of the 2020 upgraded CEAP
classiﬁcation system for chronic venous disorders.

G