MI that range from intermittent, mild postprandial pain to persistent pain, unrelated to any oral intake. The latter is clearly more
worrisome for the progression to AMI with bowel infarction. Accordingly, patients with these more severe symptoms should likely be admitted and revascularized
urgently. They may beneﬁt from systemic anticoagulation, although the supporting evidence is limited. Parenteral or enteral (if appropriate) nutritional supplements
can help to replete the nutritional status of patients
with CMI, although revascularization should not be
delayed.
The preoperative preparation before revascularization
for CMI is similar to most aortic surgical procedures. Patients should be well-hydrated and administered prophylactic antibiotics, typically against skin and enteric
organisms. Bowel preparations should likely be avoided
owing to the theoretical risk to develop AMI. All patients
should have a CTA to facilitate revascularization, if not
already performed as part of the diagnosis workup, to

assess the location and extent of the MAOD, the presence of any anatomic variants (eg, origin of the right hepatic artery from the SMA), the quality of the inﬂow
sources for open revascularization, and the status of the
access vessels for the endovascular approach.8,11
Endovascular revascularization
Recommendation.
1. We suggest using balloon-expandable covered intraluminal stents for the treatment of the MAOD in patients with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Rationale and background
The generic endovascular approach to patients with
CMI is consistent with the broader principles of endovascular therapy with many of the more speciﬁc choices
based on provider skill and personal preference. The
SMA is the primary target vessels for revascularization,
whereas the CA and IMA are secondary targets if it is
not possible to revascularize the SMA or the clinical result
is inadequate. Several anatomic ﬁndings can complicate
the endovascular revascularization of the mesenteric vessels, as mentioned, including ﬂush aortic occlusion, small
caliber vessels, extensive calciﬁcation, the presence of
tandem lesions, and the extent of involvement (ie, lesion
length). Multiple reports