 Formulating recommendations for
this speciﬁc population should take into account the
multisystem nature of diabetes and the impact of
other diabetes complications on the utility of diagnostic tests, wound healing, amputation, and survival
outcomes. One of the guidelines that speciﬁcally
addressed these topics has been that of the IWGDF,
with the last version produced in 2019.37 Instead of
making a new updated version, the IWGDF together
with the ESVS and the SVS decided to collaborate in
writing this new, intersociety, practice guideline on
PAD in diabetes mellitus, with emphasis on people
with diabetes related foot ulcers or gangrene. The

aim is to provide evidence based recommendations
on the diagnosis, prognosis (i.e., the prognostic value
of different non-invasive tests), and treatment of PAD
in people with a foot ulcer and diabetes. Each of these
topics is discussed in the different sections below. It is
not the intention to detail the speciﬁc roles, tasks, and
responsibilities of each medical specialty involved as
these vary markedly between and within countries
and this guideline is a multinational initiative. However,
emphasis is given to which expertise should be present, in terms of knowledge, skills, and competence,
to manage people according to the expected standards of care.
Related guidelines. This guideline is also part of the
IWGDF guidelines on the prevention and management
of diabetes related foot disease. Management of PAD in
these people without addressing the other aspects of
DFU treatment will frequently result in suboptimal outcomes. The reader is therefore referred to the other IWGDF
guidelines for these aspects. This IWGDF, ESVS, SVS intersocietal guideline on PAD in people with diabetes mellitus is
also part of the IWGDF guidelines on the management of
diabetes related foot complications with additional chapters on Classiﬁcation (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3648),38
Prevention
(https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3651),39
Offloading (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3647),40 Infection
(https://doi.org/10.1002