 to prevent injury to contiguous nervous structures.
1. Once a CNI is diagnosed, expectant management is
typically indicated.
2. In rare cases, vocal cord paralysis may require otolaryngologic intervention, and bilateral vocal cord paralysis may require tracheotomy.
3. Vocal cord evaluation might be advisable in patients
with bilateral carotid stenosis post ﬁrst CEA and
before contralateral CEA.
4. In rare cases, critical glossopharyngeal nerve injury
may produce severe dysphagia and/or aspiration

and may require placement of a feeding gastrostomy
tube.
Myocardial infarction and renal insufﬁciency
Patients undergoing CEA have a high prevalence of
concomitant coronary artery disease. Although frank MI
is unusual after CEA, MI is responsible for 25% to 50%
of perioperative deaths following CEA.441,442 The incidence of perioperative MI and resultant mortality has
likely decreased in the past several decades owing to
improved screening and treatment of pre-existing coronary disease as well as improved perioperative medical
management.417 Appropriate medical management of
the CEA patient is critical to reduce risk of perioperative
MI and cardiac mortality, and should include standard
antihypertensive medications, statin medications, and
antiplatelet therapy.417 Although beta blockers should
be continued in patients who have been on the medication chronically, routine use of routine beta blockers is
controversial. It may be reasonable to begin perioperative beta blockers in speciﬁc patient groups (see section
on the perioperative management of patients undergoing CEA).
Either single or dual antiplatelet therapy should be
continued in the perioperative period for CEA to
decrease the risk of both stroke and perioperative MI,
particularly in patients with known preexisting coronary
artery disease or prior percutaneous coronary procedures. The American College of Cardiology Perioperative
Guidelines endorses continuation of aspirin during the
period surrounding CEA.443 The risk of periprocedural
MI from aspirin withdrawal likely outweighs risk of severe
bleeding from aspirin continuation.3 Patients on clopidogrel may require individualized management. Clopidogrel may be safely continued through the
perioperative period without a signiﬁcantly increased
risk of