 Directors in Vascular Surgery: William D. Jordan, MD (President), Jeffrey

the

Society

for

Vascular

Surgery

kcalligaro@aol.com).
0741-5214
Copyright Ó 2018 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.

Jim, MD (Education Committee Chair).
Independent peer review and oversight have been provided by members
of

received.
Correspondence: Keith D. Calligaro, MD, Section of Vascular Surgery, Pennsylva-

(SVS)

Document

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2018.02.008

Oversight

1337

1338

Calligaro et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
May 2018

interventions also apply to the thoracic aorta (exclusive of
intracardiac vessels). These guidelines are intended to be
inclusive, applying to individuals completing Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME)accredited vascular surgery training programs as well as
individuals who have completed training in other
catheter-based procedures, such as interventional cardiology and interventional radiology. We encourage hospitals to consider these guidelines for all specialties when
granting endovascular privileges.
Although the ultimate determination of who should and
should not practice vascular surgery and endovascular
therapy in a given hospital remains its own responsibility,
these SVS guidelines provide a reference for credentialing
committees regardless of the specialty of the applicant.
The most recent guidelines for credentialing and hospital
privileges in vascular surgery were published in 2008.1
The specialty of vascular surgery has evolved with the creation of primary board certiﬁcation such that general surgery board certiﬁcation2 is no longer a prerequisite for
new vascular training paradigms.
Establishing minimum annual case volumes for every
open and endovascular procedure for vascular surgeons
or other interventionalists in clinical practice as a measure of competency is beyond the scope of the SVS at
this time, and other specialties agree with this position.2
Such guidelines for every arterial tree cannot be
defended with existing supporting data and would be
so subject to opinion that they would not be relevant.
The SVS recommends that hospitals take into account
board cert