 long-term access when appropriate. Such discussions with the patient should be initiated months before the
anticipated start of dialysis therapy.
The FFBI. Referral to surgeon for evaluation for access by stage 4 CKD (GFR ⬍30), with placement of AVF
soon thereafter (GFR 20 to 30), or based on progression of
renal disease.8,10
British Renal Association. The following is stated
under guideline 7-Vascular Access of The British Renal
Association C:37
7.4. Patients should undergo fistula creation between 6
and 12 months before hemodialysis is expected to start to
allow time for adequate maturation of the fistula or time for
a revision procedure if the fistula fails or is inadequate for
use.
Canadian Society of Nephrology. Guidelines from
the Canadian Society of Nephrology indicate:38
A. Establish autogenous AV access when the patient has a
creatinine clearance of 15 to 20 mL/min or serum
creatinine of 300 to 500 ␮mol/L, depending on the
size and weight of the patient.
B. Place dialysis prosthetic access at least 3 to 6 weeks
before an anticipated need for hemodialysis.
Caring for Australians with Renal Insufficiency
(CARI). Guidelines from Caring for Australians With Renal Insufficiency state:36
A. All patients, and especially those with comorbid conditions, should be referred to a vascular access surgeon
well in advance of the anticipated need for hemodialysis. The exact timing depends on patient-related factors
and local facilities.
B. Several procedures may be required to establish access
and maturation of access may be prolonged in some
patients.
C. AV grafts should be placed only shortly before anticipated use.
Preoperative evaluation. Establishing functional AV
access requires careful preoperative evaluation and planning. This process starts by early identification of individuals with renal insufficiency for prompt surgical consultation
to select the best extremity and site for an autogenous AV
access. A very important determinant of the success of AV
access is an appropriate and detailed preoperative history
and examination, followed by vessel mapping.
Patient history specific to vascular access selection. Several historical factors have been associated with increased
difficulty in establishing a