 Nevertheless, MRA has become widely used
in evaluating patients with carotid artery disease. It can be
used in combination with an initial duplex ultrasound
scan for the planning of carotid artery intervention.
Contrast-enhanced MRA using gadolinium has been
shown to be the most accurate noninvasive imaging modality for evaluation of carotid stenosis.39 However, MRA
has no role in screening for carotid artery disease owing
to its considerable expense. Contraindications include
the presence of metallic implants, including some pacemakers and deﬁbrillators. In patients with signiﬁcant renal
failure, there is a rare but serious risk of nephrogenic systemic ﬁbrosis following gadolinium contrast administration.49 MRA using the time of ﬂight technique has been
reported to overestimate the degree of stenosis.3
CT angiography. Multidimensional CT angiography
(CTA) can rapidly and accurately evaluate soft tissue,
bone and vascular structures simultaneously. It is also
able to evaluate the extent of vessel calciﬁcation, particularly in the aortic arch, and is less likely to overestimate the
severity of carotid stenosis as compared with MRA.3,40
Radiation and use of contrast remain its most signiﬁcant
limitations. CTA is not appropriate for widespread
screening owing to its signiﬁcant cost and degree of radiation exposure.40 With regard to CEA planning, CTA is
often used during preoperative evaluation in combination

32S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

with an initial duplex ultrasound examination. In particular, if there is hemodynamic evidence of either proximal
cerebrovascular disease or intracranial outﬂow disease on
duplex ultrasound examination, CTA can be used to
accurately image the aortic arch, great vessels, and intracranial circulation. However, MRA is likely better than CTA
in the evaluation of plaque morphology.50 Duplex criteria
have also been validated using CTA as opposed to formal
catheter-based arteriography to measure the degree of
carotid artery stenosis.47
Conventional catheter arteriography. Catheter arteriography was