AC vs RFA found no difference in anatomic closure or minor AEs in patients
treated for SSV incompetence.
The fourth question addresses the role of incompetent
perforator veins in the early stages of chronic venous insufﬁciency, such as CEAP 2 and 3 disease. One reason to
address the evidence related to perforator vein treatment
is that many vascular laboratories include a complete DUS
study to evaluate all patients with varicose veins. Because
they assess the deep, truncal, tributary, and perforator
veins, once incompetence is identiﬁed at any site, a decision regarding treatment must be made. The perforator
treatment question was also selected because many
perforator procedures are currently being performed in
patients with simple CEAP 2 varicose veins, either
concomitant with truncal vein ablation or after recovery
from ablation of the saphenous vein, assuming that
incompetent perforators are responsible for any remaining venous insufﬁciency. One area not addressed in this

systematic review is the role of perforator incompetence
in patients with venous ulcers; O’Donnell et al125 in the
AVF/SVS Venous Ulcer Practice Guidelines addressed
the role of perforator vein ablation in patients with open
and healed venous ulcers.
This systematic review of the role of treatment of
incompetent perforator veins included two randomized
studies.112,113 In these studies, there were no statistically
signiﬁcant differences between groups with and without
perforator closure regarding pain, mobility, or QoL scores.
The study by Van Neer et al119 demonstrated no difference in postoperative reﬂux in the GSV branches after
saphenous ablation in patients with incompetent perforator veins. The authors concluded that reﬂux in the
below-knee GSV persists in all below-knee GSV branches
after proximal stripping or ablation, and these residual
varicose veins were not related to the presence of incompetent perforator veins. Therefore, there is little evidence
to support the treatment of incompetent perforator
veins in patients with CEAP 2 varicose veins. No study
evaluated patients with CEAP 2 varicose veins after
saphen