/American Venous Forum clinical practice guidelines and provide new
evidence-based recommendations on critical issues affecting the care of patients with varicose veins. Each recommendation is based on a recent, independent systematic review and meta-analysis of the diagnostic tests and treatments options for patients with lower extremity varicose veins. Part I of the guidelines includes evidence-based
recommendations for the evaluation of patients with CEAP (Clinical Class, Etiology, Anatomy, Pathology) class 2 varicose
vein using duplex ultrasound scanning and other diagnostic tests, open surgical treatment (ligation and stripping) vs
endovenous ablation techniques, thermal vs nonthermal ablation of the superﬁcial truncal veins, and management of
incompetent perforating veins in CEAP class 2 disease. We have also made recommendations on the concomitant vs
staged treatment of varicose tributaries using phlebectomy or liquid or foam sclerotherapy (with physician-compounded
foam or commercially prepared polidocanol endovenous microfoam) for patients undergoing ablation of incompetent
superﬁcial truncal veins. (J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2023;11:231-61.)
Keywords: Ablation; Cyanoacrylate; Endovascular; Endovenous; Guidelines; Laser; Mechanicochemical ablation; Polidocanol endovenous microfoam; Radiofrequency; Sclerotherapy, Varicose veins; Venous insufﬁciency
From the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Gonda Vascular Cen-

Research Co-operative, Philips, SurModics, and Syntactx. M.H. Murad was

ter, Mayo Clinic, Rochestera; the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Sur-

funded by the Society for Vascular Surgery to conduct systematic reviews

gery, Department of Surgery, University of California, Los Angeles, Los

and provide methodology expertise. A.T.O. is a primary investigator for preclin-

Angelesb; the Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel

ical research grants funded by Medtronic and SurModics. K.J.O. is an Intersoci-

Hill, and Rex Vascular Specialists, UNC Health, Raleighc; the University of

etal Accreditation Commission board member, a