 arterial carbon dioxide; SIRS, systemic inﬂammatory response syndrome.
a
Ischemia may complicate and increase the severity of any infection. Systemic infection may sometimes manifest with other clinical ﬁndings, such as hypotension, confusion, vomiting, or evidence of metabolic disturbances, such as acidosis, severe hyperglycemia, new-onset azotemia.
From Lipsky et al.42

Table II. a, Key summary points for use of Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Threatened Limb (SVS WIfI)
classiﬁcation system
1. Table II, the full system, is to be used for initial, baseline classiﬁcation of all patients with ischemic rest pain or wounds within the
spectrum of chronic lower limb ischemia when reporting outcomes, regardless of form of therapy. The system is not to be employed for
patients with vasospastic and collagen vascular disease, vasculitis, Buerger’s disease, acute limb ischemia, or acute trauma (mangled
extremity).
2. Patients with and without diabetes mellitus should be differentiated into separate categories for subsequent outcomes analysis.
a. Presence of neuropathy (6) should be noted when possible in patients with diabetes in long-term studies of wound healing, ulcer
recurrence, and amputation, since the presence of neuropathy (loss of protective sensation and motor neuropathic deformity)
inﬂuences recurrence rate.
3. In the Wound (W) classiﬁcation, depth takes priority over size. Although we recommend that a wound, if present, be measured,
a shallow, 8-cm2 ulcer with no exposed tendon or bone would be classiﬁed as grade 1.
a. If a study of wound healing vs Wound (W) grade were performed, wounds would be classiﬁed by depth, and could also be
categorized by size: small (<5 cm2), medium (5-10 cm2), and large (>10 cm2)
4. TPs are preferred for classiﬁcation of ischemia (I) in patients with diabetes mellitus, since ABI is often falsely elevated. TcPO2, SPP, and
ﬂat forefoot PVRs are also acceptable alternatives if TP is unavailable. All reports of outcomes with or without revascularization therapy
require measurement and classiﬁcation of