ia, Bulgaria, Australia, England, the USA). The process started with review of the clinical questions that the
Writing Committee proposed to address, which were
subsequently adjusted, and which formed the basis of
the guideline development. The ﬁrst preliminary version
of the guideline was reviewed by the IWGDF, ESVS, and
members of the SVS Document Oversight Committee.

The revised text was then reviewed by the external experts and patient representatives, and subsequently a
new version was submitted for review to the three organisations. The Writing Committee met for the ﬁrst time in
late 2020 and the ﬁrst draft of the guideline was sent out
for review in December 2022.

METHODOLOGY
This guideline is also part of a set of guidelines (and
their supporting systematic reviews) of the IWGDF on
the management of diabetes related foot ulcers, which
all used the same Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology. These guidelines address the other aspects of
management and are published separately. The IWGDF
editorial board had the task of ensuring that there would
not be too much overlap between these documents and
that they were consistent with each other. The ESVS and
SVS Executive Board agreed with this approach. The
methodology used is described in detail in a separate
IWGDF document (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3656);
here a summary is provided.1
In brief, the GRADE system was followed.2,3 GRADE is
structured by the development of clinical questions and selection of critical outcomes, which are subsequently translated in the PICO (Population, Intervention, Comparison,
Outcome) format. The Writing Committee developed the
clinical questions to be investigated after consultation
with the external experts and patient representatives. Critically important outcomes for clinical questions were voted
upon by the Writing Committee members. Subsequently,
the PICOs were created and voted on for inclusion by
Writing Committee members. The PICOs to be included
were then reviewed by the external experts, patient representatives, and the guideline committee of the societies
involved. The systematic reviews of the literature to address
the clinical questions were performed according to the
preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and
meta-analyses (PRISMA) guideline.4 The process of identifying and evaluating the