

In patients with ruptured SAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies, we suggest
treatment with open surgical or appropriate endovascular techniques based on the
patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.3

We suggest elective treatment of SAA using an endovascular approach if it is
anatomically feasible. However, elective treatment may appropriately involve open
surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods of intervention, depending on the
patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.4

In treatment of SAA, we suggest that the splenic artery does not routinely require
preservation or revascularization.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.5

In treatment of distal SAA adjacent to the hilum of the spleen, we suggest open
surgical techniques including possible splenectomy as opposed to endovascular
methods, given concern for the possibility of end-organ ischemia, including splenic
infarction and pancreatitis.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.6

In pregnant women with SAA, treatment decisions should be individualized regardless
of size, and the potential morbidity to both the mother and fetus should be
considered.

Ungraded best practice
statement

Treatment of SAA can generally be accomplished by
either open surgical or endovascular approaches. In
areas of the visceral circulation with an abundance of
collateral ﬂow, as in the splenic artery, proximal and
distal ligation of the aneurysm segment is a viable surgical option. This can also be accomplished with endovascular isolation of the aneurysmal segment, either by
placement of a stent graft or by coil embolization of
the proximal and distal arterial segment. The preferred
treatment of an individual patient and aneurysm must
be carefully based on the particular anatomy and any
associated clinical conditions as well as the underlying
condition of the patient.
The traditional surgical management of SAA includes
proximal and distal ligation and aneurysmectomy for lesions in the proximal or middle portion of the splenic artery. Revascularization of the distal splenic artery is
generally not warranted because collateral ﬂow to the
spleen is maintained by the short gastric arteries.