both in symptomatology and risk assessment, and acknowledged the potential increased role of aggressive
medical management as primary therapy in this highrisk group.
7. Neurologically asymptomatic patients deemed “high
risk” for CEA should be considered for primary medical
management. CEA can be considered in these patients
only with evidence that perioperative morbidity and
mortality is ⬍3%. CAS should not be performed in these
patients except as part of an ongoing clinical trial
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
8. There are insufficient data to recommend CAS as primary therapy for neurologically asymptomatic patients
with 70% to 99% diameter stenosis. Data from CREST
suggest that in properly selected asymptomatic patients,
CAS is equivalent to CEA in the hands of experienced
interventionalists. Operators and institutions performing CAS must exhibit expertise sufficient to meet the
previously established AHA guidelines for treatment of
patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Specifically, the combined stroke and death rate must be ⬍3%
to ensure benefit for the patient (GRADE 2, Level of
Evidence B).
VI. UNUSUAL CONDITIONS ASSOCIATED
WITH CAROTID STENOSIS
Vascular surgeons will encounter a number of clinical
scenarios where the role of carotid intervention is not well
established. Oftentimes the data regarding treatment are
relatively sparse or represent single-center series rather than
prospective randomized trials. These conditions, however,
may still be associated with the development of cerebral
symptoms, particularly cerebrovascular accident (CVA)
and consequently warrant analysis and recommendation.46,229 For the most part, randomized controlled trials

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

have not been performed to examine these conditions that
occur infrequently, and consequently, Level I evidence is
often not available to guide physician practice. Nonetheless, the task force members determined that it was appropriate to make some recommendations in areas where they
could reach unanimous agreement. These recommendations should be taken as the best opinion of the task force
given current available data. As stated earlier, they may well
change in the future as therapy evolves and new data
emerge.
A. Acute neurologic syndromes
Acute neurologic syndromes can be divided