omatic ARTE III and
IV after endovenous ablation, anticoagulation with a
direct oral anticoagulant (over a vitamin K antagonist)
should be performed.
Consensus statement
11.4.2. For patients who receive anticoagulation for
ARTE following endovenous ablation, treatment
should be continued until the thrombus retracts.
Consensus statement.
Rationale. As discussed, routine screening of asymptomatic, average-risk patients for ARTE/DVT is not recommended and asymptomatic ARTE/DVT in these
patients should rarely be diagnosed. The majority of
ARTEs are ARTE I and II,234 which is of minimal clinical
relevance. Although previous guidelines233 have recommended either no treatment (EHIT I), weekly surveillance
(EHIT II), or consideration of antiplatelet vs anticoagulant
therapy (high-risk patients with EHIT II), these should be
rarely encountered in the absence of routine ultrasound
surveillance. ARTE III and IV are presumably more likely
to be symptomatic and to be suspected based on
accepted clinical indications. Although it is not entirely
clear that the natural history of ARTE III to IV is the same
as DVT,233 a conservative approach would suggest treatment similar to established guidelines for DVT treatment.253 However, as the natural history of ARTE is not
well-documented, the value of alternative approaches
such as anticoagulation until thrombus resolution as
observed by ultrasound cannot be entirely excluded.
Given the uncertain beneﬁt, treatment of symptomatic
ARTE according to established guidelines for acute DVT

54

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

is a weak suggestion. Furthermore, as this evidence is
extrapolated from current guidelines for the management of DVT and is therefore indirect, for the management of ARTE the level of evidence has been
downgraded to C.
Further research is needed regarding the natural history
of ARTE. More data is particularly needed regarding the
value of anticoagulation vs serial follow-up and the duration of anticoagulation in treated patients. Given the uncertainty of the evidence, at present, duration of
anticoagulation should be at the judgment of the
clinician.
