SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY DOCUMENT
The intersocietal IWGDF, ESVS, SVS guidelines on
peripheral artery disease in people with diabetes
mellitus and a foot ulcer
Robert Fitridge,a Vivienne Chuter,b Joseph Mills,c Robert Hinchliffe,d Nobuyoshi Azuma,e
Christian-Alexander Behrendt,f Edward J. Boyko,g Michael S. Conte,h Misty Humphries,i Lee Kirksey,j
Katharine C. McGinigle,k Sigrid Nikol,l Joakim Nordanstig,m Vincent Rowe,n David Russell,o
Jos C. van den Berg,p Maarit Venermo,q and Nicolaas Schaper,r Campbelltown, Australia; Houston, TX; Bristol, UK;
Hokkaido, Japan; Hamburg, Germany; Seattle, WA; CA, USA; Sacramento, CA; Cleveland, OH; Chapel Hill, NC; Hamburg,
Germany; Gothenburg, Sweden; Los Angeles, CA; Leeds, UK; Helsinki, Finland; The Netherlands

Abstract: Diabetes related foot complications have become a major cause of morbidity and are implicated in most major
and minor amputations globally. Approximately 50% of people with diabetes and a foot ulcer have peripheral artery
disease (PAD) and the presence of PAD signiﬁcantly increases the risk of adverse limb and cardiovascular events.
The International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot (IWGDF) has published evidence based guidelines on the
management and prevention of diabetes related foot complications since 1999. This guideline is an update of the 2019
IWGDF guideline on the diagnosis, prognosis, and management of peripheral artery disease in people with diabetes
mellitus and a foot ulcer. For this updated guideline, the IWGDF, the European Society for Vascular Surgery, and the
Society for Vascular Surgery decided to collaborate to develop a consistent suite of recommendations relevant to clinicians in all countries.
This guideline is based on three new systematic reviews. Using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment,
Development and Evaluation framework clinically relevant questions were formulated, and the literature was systematically reviewed. After assessing the certainty of the evidence, recommendations were formulated which were weighed
against the balance of beneﬁts and harms, patient values, feasibility, acceptability, equity, resources required, and when
available, costs.
Through this process ﬁve recommendations