 results of the participants with diabetes were reported separately. All included studies were assessed for quality and risk
of bias with the following instruments, depending on the
type of study: Quality in Prognosis Studies, the revised quality appraisal tool for studies of diagnostic reliability,
ROBINS-I (for assessing risk of bias in non-randomised
studies of interventions), the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (for
non-randomised studies, including observational and
cohort studies where details regarding allocation to intervention groups was not provided), and the Cochrane risk
of bias 2 tool for randomised controlled trials.8e13 For each
PICO the quality of evidence was graded for risk of bias,
inconsistency, imprecision, publication bias, and overall
quality. The certainty of the evidence was then rated as
high, moderate, low, or very low.
The GRADE evidence to decision approach was subsequently used for the development of the recommendations during online discussions of the Writing Committee
(which were all recorded and available for later review
from the Secretary). In developing each recommendation
and its strength the following aspects were taken into account: beneﬁts, harms, effect size, and certainty; balance
of beneﬁts and harms; resource use; acceptability; feasibility; equity. The strength of each recommendation was
graded as Strong or Conditional. All Writing Committee
members voted on each recommendation. For a Strong
Recommendation at least 75% and for a Conditional
Recommendation at least 60% had to agree. After each
recommendation, a rationale is provided for how each
recommendation was determined.1,14
There were situations where sufﬁcient direct evidence
supporting the formulation of a recommendation could
not be identiﬁed, but performing the actions recommended would very likely result in clear beneﬁt, or not performing the test or intervention in marked harm. In these
situations, an ungraded Best Practice Statement was
formulated with a rationale explaining how the statement

was arrived at and how GRADE criteria for developing such
a statement were considered, as advised in a recent publication of the GRADE group on this topic.15 According to
GRADE, such recommendations should be formulated as
actionable statements when they are deemed necessary
for practice and when the desirable effects of an intervention clearly outweigh its undesirable effects. Although in
these cases direct evidence is lacking, they should be