ascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

incremental cost of $524 per patient and a reduction in
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.008 years. It is unclear whether the practitioners who participated in
CREST through a rigorous selection process reﬂect
what can be expected in general practice of CAS and
CEA.672 The authors of the latter study also noted that
although CEA and CAS provided comparable overall results, more widespread performance of CAS may be
limited by the costs associated with CAS.672 Other investigators also conducted a cost utility analysis of the results of the ICSS over a 5-year horizon. This analysis
found that there were no signiﬁcant differences in
adjusted costs between the two procedures or in
adjusted outcomes. However, the authors of this report
noted that the study was limited by failure to capture
the costs of managing strokes in the study, and the fact
that the costs of supplies may not apply to other
countries.673
Although the clinical results of CAS continue to
improve, it seems clear from objective evidence accumulated to date that more broad-based applicability may
be limited by economic considerations. This should be
considered by clinicians when electing how to treat patients with carotid artery disease, and it may also inﬂuence patient decision-making. It seems clear that a
reduction in the costs associated with carotid stents
and associated other necessary endovascular tools may
be necessary,674 and/or reimbursement by payors will
need to match associated costs.

REFERENCES
1. Eslami MH, McPhee JT, Simons JP, Schanzer A, Messina LM. National trends in utilization and postprocedure outcomes for carotid
artery revascularization 2005 to 2007. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:307-15.
2. Cowan JA Jr, Dimick JB, Thompson BG, Stanley JC, Upchurch GR Jr.
Surgeon volume as an indicator of outcomes after carotid endarterectomy: an effect independent of specialty practice and hospital
volume. J Am Coll Surg 2002;195:814-21.
3. Ricotta JJ, Aburahma A, Ascher E, Eskand