erotic burden is also associated with an increased risk
with CAS. This is felt to be the main reason that CAS results
are worse in patients aged ⬎80 years.199,200
2. Patient characteristics. It seems intuitive that the
risk of periprocedural events after CEA or CAS might be
increased in patients presenting with severe comorbid conditions, including dialysis-dependent renal failure, New
York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease, left
ventricular ejection fraction ⬍30%, class III or IV angina
pectoris, left main or multivessel coronary disease, severe
aortic valvular disease, oxygen- or steroid-dependent pulmonary disease, or both, contralateral carotid occlusion,
and advanced age. However, little data exist to support one
therapy over another in these patients.162,163 In fact, defining a high-risk patient is much more subjective than defining a high-risk lesion.193,194,201,202
As will be seen later, CAS is associated with a lower
incidence of cardiac events than is seen in CEA. Therefore,
CAS would be preferred over CEA when severe cardiac
comorbidities exist in neurologically symptomatic patients.
Chronic renal insufficiency has been associated with increased risk of stroke and death after CAS203,204 and
CEA.205,206 Univariate and multivariate analysis both show
that the risk of death, stroke, and MI after CAS at 6 months
was associated with hazard ratios ⬎2.5 among patients with
chronic kidney disease.204 Chronic renal insufficiency also
increases the risk of stroke after CEA (1.08% to 5.56%).
Among asymptomatic patients with cardiac or renal insufficiency, best medical therapy may be preferable to CAS or
CEA. CEA or CAS may be considered among symptomatic
high-risk patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis,
but the effectiveness over medical therapy is not well
established.
There are conflicting data on the influence of contralateral occlusion on the outcome of CEA or CAS. NASCET
reported that a contralateral occlusion increased the risk of
stroke after CEA from