 continued and uninterrupted vascular access, should
one of the outflow branches fail. The brachial artery can
also be used as inflow, but use of the proximal radial artery
minimizes the risk of steal syndrome. Further, the side-toside anastomosis maintains flow through multiple venous
channels.122
Autogenous brachial (proximal radial) artery–axillary
vein upper arm indirect greater saphenous translocation.
This autogenous access is performed between the axillary
vein in the axilla and the brachial or proximal radial artery in
or near the antecubital fossa using the great saphenous vein
as conduit. The axillary or proximal brachial vein is identified through a longitudinal incision in the axilla. The artery
is then isolated. An appropriate length of great saphenous
vein is harvested from the lower extremity. The great
saphenous vein is translocated in a superficial and lateral
tunnel between the axillary vein and chosen artery to perform the two anastomoses. The saphenous vein can also be
constructed in loop configuration in the arm or forearm.
Lower extremity autogenous accesses. Autogenous femoral– great saphenous lower extremity looped transposition.
This autogenous access is performed between the end of
the great saphenous vein and the superficial femoral artery
in the groin. The great saphenous vein and common femoral artery are identified through a longitudinal groin incision. The great saphenous vein is mobilized for an appro-

Sidawy et al 21S

priate length. The great saphenous vein is tunneled
superficially and laterally to the superficial femoral artery to
perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous femoral artery–femoral vein lower extremity
transposition (straight). This autogenous access is performed between the end of the femoral vein and the femoral artery. The femoral vein and femoral artery are identified through longitudinal incisions. The femoral vein is
mobilized for an appropriate length, usually into the adductor canal, but not including the popliteal. The femoral
vein is tunneled superficially and laterally to the femoral
artery to perform the an