 rates of recurrent symptoms are not leading an increased rate of death from
AMI. Fortunately, the endovascular-ﬁrst approach does
not seem to preclude subsequent open revascularization. In addition, the endovascular-ﬁrst recommendation
is consistent with other practice guidelines from the European Society of Vascular Surgery,11 the American College of Radiology,118 and the Society of Interventional
Radiologists.119
The recommendation for an endovascular-ﬁrst
approach must be tempered by the quality of the underlying evidence. Although the systematic reviews and
meta-analyses have attempted to identify the best
possible evidence, the trials that comprised the review
were largely retrospective, single-center studies and the
overall quality of the evidence in our review was deﬁned
as low. Furthermore, the individual case series likely
included a heterogeneous group of patients, clinical presentations, treatments (both open and endovascular),
surveillance protocols and remedial interventions.
The optimal treatment approach to patients with CMI
should likely encompass the patient’s anatomy, comorbidities, life expectancy, and individual goals of care
and may not be as simple as an endovascular-ﬁrst or
open-ﬁrst issue. Tallarita et al120 examined the longterm survival and cause of death after open and endovascular treatment for CMI. They found that the independent predictors of death were age greater than 80 years,
diabetes, chronic kidney disease, and home oxygen with
the leading causes of death being cardiac > cancer >
pulmonary > mesenteric. The 5-year survival was identical for the open and endovascular cohorts in their
propensity-matched analysis, suggesting that survival is

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

103S

Volume 73, Number 1S

dictated more by patient comorbidities than by the
choice of revascularization. Similarly, Lima et al121 examined the indications for readmission after revascularization for CMI in the National Inpatient Sample from
2007 to 2014. They reported that the 30-day readmission
rate was 19.5% with one-quarter of the readmissions
related to cardiovascular or cerebrovascular conditions.
The independent predictors of readmission included
nonelective index admission, chronic kidney