6
Despite ﬁndings from this single randomized trial, there
are not enough convincing data to support mandating
drain or no drainage of CEA incisions. Any evidence of
stridor or tracheal deviation mandates immediate
wound exploration and hematoma evacuation.
Summary and recommendations.
1. The decision for use of drainage post CEA should be
left up to the operating surgeon.
2. Patients on heparin anticoagulation may beneﬁt from
perioperative suction drainage; however, there are no
Level 1 data to conﬁrm this.
Completion imaging
The previous carotid guideline document highlighted
uncertainty regarding use of completion imaging after
CEA to prevent restenosis or stroke.3 Despite numerous reports of postendarterectomy intraoperative lesion detection with completion imaging,337-339 there were also
several series that reported favorable outcomes without
use of routine imaging.340,341 In 2013, a Vascular Study
Group of Northern New England report of 6115 CEAs
with variable use of completion imaging did not show
risk-adjusted improvement in outcome, with possible
deleterious effects on mortality and stroke with resultant
reexploration based on imaging ﬁndings.342 However, a
recent German study of 142,074 CEAs from 2009 to 2014
reported an independent risk reduction with use of
completion ultrasound examination orangiography.256
This ﬁnding has not been reproduced in a large series
and in the absence of a prospective trial, it remains difﬁcult to advocate for compulsory completion imaging after
CEA for the purpose of reducing future events. However, if
there is concern about the end point, abnormal Doppler
ﬁndings or neurologic deterioration completion studies
should be performed.
Summary and recommendations. There is insufﬁcient
evidence to recommend routine use of completion imaging after CEA.
Management of carotid coils and kinks
In the absence of signiﬁcant stenosis, management of
patients with ICA coils and kinks remains controversial.
Incidental coils and kinks are found in up to 16% of patients, and one-half will have histologic features consistent with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia. One