 this is not a common problem, clinicians must be prepared to approach these high
lesions. The ﬁrst indication of an unusually high lesion
could be inability to image above the lesion when

performing the ultrasound assessment. In these instances,
corroborative CTA and/or MR imaging must be performed
to fully evaluate operative approaches. In highly select
cases, the presence of distal disease extension may
prompt the surgeon to reconsider whether CAS is more
appropriate (especially in asymptomatic patients), or
whether medical therapy would be more appropriate.
In the presence of distal disease extension, advanced
planning is essential. Nasal pharyngeal intubation enables the mouth to be closed which then opens up the
angle between the jaw and mastoid process to facilitate
distal access.330 Subluxation (not dislocation) of the temporal mandible joint has to be undertaken preoperatively because it cannot be performed once the
operation is underway.171,331,332 An alternative strategy involves extending the incision anterior to the ear and
mobilization of the superﬁcial lobe of the parotid. This
greatly increases access to the upper ICA, but usually requires assistance of an ENT specialist or parotid surgeon.330 Intraoperatively, there are several techniques
to optimize access to the more distal ICA. These include
division of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, division of the occipital branch of the external carotid artery, which tethers the hypoglossal nerve; transection of
the ansa-cervicalis, which also tethers the hypoglossal
nerve; and transection of the styloid process. One simple
maneuver can be transection of the ansa-cervicalis with
division of the digastric and keeping a suture on the
ansa-cervicalis and using it as a retractor to move the hypoglossal nerve out of the ﬁeld and protect it.171,330-332
Summary and recommendations.
1. Surgeons should anticipate the presence of distal disease extension preoperatively and plan for this in
advance in case a high exposure of the ICA is
necessary.
Wound drainage and hematoma after CEA
Stone et al165