 the diagnosis
of carotid occlusion can be made with a high degree of
certainty.76,77
MRI can be used to analyze plaque morphology, specifically the structure of the atherosclerotic plaque. It can
identify the lipid-rich necrotic core and the fibrous capsule
with high sensitivity and specificity78 and can distinguish
between an intact thick, thin, or ruptured fibrous cap.79
When dedicated protocols are used, MR also can demonstrate specific plaque components, including calcium, lipid,
fibrocellular element, or thrombus within the plaques.
C. Computed tomography angiography
CTA is less susceptible than MRA to overestimating the
severity of carotid stenosis. The rapid acquisition of spiral
CT images allows excellent timing with contrast administration and provides quality images that can be viewed in
multiple planes. CTA is extremely fast and offers submillimeter spatial resolution (0.3 vs 0.8 mm for contrastenhanced MRA), is less expensive than contrast-enhanced
MRA, provides a faster processing time, and can visualize
soft tissue, bone, and blood vessels at the same time. CTA
can also demonstrate vascular anomalies, has the ability to
quantify the extent of calcification, and can interrogate the
arterial tree from the aortic arch to the circle of Willis.
Stenoses can be measured with electronic microcalipers
based on NASCET or ECST methods.80
A meta-analysis of 28 studies analyzing the diagnostic
accuracy of CTA compared with DSA showed a pooled
sensitivity of 85% and specificity of 93% for CTA in detecting 70% to 99% carotid stenosis and a sensitivity and specificity for occlusions of 97% and 99%.81 CTA was also
highly accurate in identifying calcification but less reliable
in describing carotid plaque morphology, specifically the
lipid component, or ulceration. CTA appears less reliable
than DUS imaging or MRA for assessing plaque morphology.82 Other limitations of this technique include cost
(compared with DUS), contrast exposure, and the added
concern of radiation exposure. In addition, a large calcium
burden can limit the ability to distinguish contrast from
calcium during postprocessing imaging.

