parated specialties into surgery, radiology/neurology,
and cardiology,580 demonstrated that cardiologists had
reduced EPD dwell times (the time during which the cerebral protection devices were deployed in place),
compared with surgery and radiology/neurology. However, the 30-day stroke/death/MI risk did not differ among
the three specialties. Similarly, the CAPTURE study found
no difference in 30-day stroke/death/MI based on specialty.577 Vogel et al587 evaluated the State Inpatient
Database for New Jersey and found that in 625 CAS patients, stroke risk was not signiﬁcantly different between
specialties. Interestingly, vascular surgeons did have a
lower mean hospital cost with radiology and cardiology.
Similarly, Steppacher et al583 used the State In-Patent
Databases from New York and Florida to evaluate 4001
CAS procedures, demonstrating no difference in inpatient stroke or death risk between interventional cardiology, interventional radiology, and vascular surgery.
Additionally, Sgroi et al588 evaluated 20,663 CAS patients
from the National Impatient Sample database, where
operators were classiﬁed into surgeons and interventionalists, and demonstrated that the 30-day stroke/death/MI
risks were not signiﬁcantly different between the two
groups.588 However, the study showed that the interventionalists did have increased hospital charges and length
of stay compared with the surgeons.
Recently, AbuRahma et al589 reported on the clinical
outcome of CAS according to provider specialty and volume. Four hundred fourteen CAS procedures (44% for
symptomatic indications) were analyzed. Clinical characteristics and demographics were similar between specialties. Major adverse events rates (stroke/MI/death)
were not signiﬁcantly different between specialties:
7.1% for interventional radiologists, 6.7% for interventional
vascular medicine, 6.3% for vascular surgeons, and 3.1%
for interventional cardiologists (P ¼ .3121; 6.3% for vascular
surgeons and 3.8% for others combined; P ¼ .2469).
When physicians with less than 5 CAS/year were
excluded