120 limbs with
primary varicose veins treated with polidocanol as a
sclerosant were evaluated. The empty vein technique
was used, and immediately after injection, a long cotton
roll was placed over the entire vein and additional
compression was applied with class I and class II medical
compression hosiery.41 This study reported good sclerosing results in all patients treated. The side effects
were classiﬁed as early or late. There were minor side
effects in 16 patients. Superﬁcial venous blood clots and
phlebitis occurred in three cases, which needed microthrombectomy. This study supported the effectiveness
of cotton wool roll compression at the location of treatment by using the roll as part of the compression
therapy. The result was that compression therapy was
more effective and easier to perform. One RCT evaluated
124 limbs randomized to receive bandaging for 24 hours
vs 5 days. It found no advantage to compression
bandaging for >24 hours when thromboembolic

24

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

deterrent stockings were worn for 14 days after the initial
bandaging.42
Raj et al43 addressed the issue of compression
bandaging and how long bandages maintain their pressure during ambulatory treatment of varicose veins. They
recommended that compression bandaging be worn for
6 weeks after sclerotherapy. However, pressures under
these bandages were measured during 8 hours, and
the results showed that different surgeons applied
bandages over a wide range of pressures. The initial
pressures were also higher when standard compression
pads were used, although the rate at which the pressure
fell was about the same.
The question of short-term vs long-term standard
bandaging after sclerotherapy was also addressed in
the Cochrane review.53 The duration of compression
(short vs standard time) after sclerotherapy was the
subject of four randomized trials. The following
assessed outcomes favored short-term application of
bandages: cosmetic and symptomatic improvement54;
recurrent varicose veins55,56; complications such as
phlebitis, staining, pain, blistering, and ulceration3