m is of sufﬁcient size to meet treatment guidelines,
therapy should be primarily guided by appropriate aneurysm
exclusion with concomitant restoration of unimpeded blood
ﬂow to the lower extremities. In the case of small aneurysms,
any treatment considered for symptomatic AIOD should
achieve simultaneous aneurysm exclusion or not impede
any future open or endovascular aneurysm repair options.
Mortality for endovascular interventions in the aorta can
range from 1% to 3%, and morbidity ranges from 5% to 20%,
with aortic rupture a possibility.148-150 Importantly, one
should be prepared for potential aortic rupture when
embarking on treatment for an aortic lesion with interventional therapy. Renal dysfunction has been reported in 2%
to 10% of patients. Intensive care unit stay, blood transfusion
requirements, and infection rates are generally lower with
EVT than with open aortic reconstructions.155-157
Iliac interventions. Angioplasty remains a therapy for
treatment of iliac artery disease but has largely been supplanted by a primary stenting approach for this disease. In
general, the more extensive and complex the occlusive disease, the more likely a primary stent approach will improve
patency. For this reason, except for very focal disease, primary
stenting of iliac occlusive disease offers the best approach for
long-term patency.137 The use of balloon-expandable vs selfexpanding stents has been inadequately studied to claim an
advantage of one device over another; however, certain
characteristics and locations may favor one stent design over
another. As in other beds, lesions with more calcium or
especially ostial lesions favor the use of balloon-expandable
stents, which have greater radial strength and resistance to
crush. This allows for improved expansion and retention of
vessel diameter after stent placement.
The percutaneous approach to iliac disease can vary from
ipsilateral to contralateral groin to brachial, but one should be
certain that devices with an appropriate length are available
before initiating a procedure. If there is an expectation of
the brachial approach being used, longer delivery systems
should be available. When treating