 the
choice of revascularization. Similarly, Lima et al121 examined the indications for readmission after revascularization for CMI in the National Inpatient Sample from
2007 to 2014. They reported that the 30-day readmission
rate was 19.5% with one-quarter of the readmissions
related to cardiovascular or cerebrovascular conditions.
The independent predictors of readmission included
nonelective index admission, chronic kidney disease,
and discharge to home health care or a skilled nursing
facility; the revascularization modality did not predict
the readmission rate. Interestingly, Hogendoorn et al122
developed a decision analysis model to compare open
and endovascular revascularization for CMI that incorporated perioperative and longer term mortality, complications, patency, reinterventions, and their associated costs.
They reported that the endovascular therapy cost more
for patients less than 60 years of age, but the incremental
cost effectiveness ratio was less than $60,000 per
quality-adjusted life-year. For patients 60 years of age
and older, the endovascular approach was preferred
because the effectiveness was greater and the costs
were lower. They concluded that the endovascular
approach was favored for all age groups because it
seems to be cost effective despite the higher rate of
reinterventions.
Despite the advances in the endovascular therapies
over the past few decades, there remains a role for
open revascularization for patients with CMI. The potential indications include endovascular failures, lesions
not amenable to endovascular treatment, and younger/
healthier patients who may do better in the long term
with open revascularization. The speciﬁc anatomic ﬁndings that would potentially preclude endovascular
treatment include ﬂush aortic occlusions, long
segment occlusions, severe calciﬁcation, tandem lesions, distal lesions, and small diameter vessels. A variety of creative endovascular solutions have been
described to overcome these relative contraindications.
Notably, Sharafuddin et al92 described their experience
with endovascular recanalization of total mesenteric
vessel occlusions and reported that neither the presence of a stump, ostial plaque, extensive calciﬁ