 the total occluded
artery. In a large case series involving stenting of the proximal ICA followed by thrombectomy, Cohen et al reported successful reperfusion in 79% of patients. These
data supported use of this approach because most acute
occlusion lesions are due to atherosclerotic lesions with
fresh thrombus.489
Summary and recommendations.
1. Intravenous thrombolysis should be administered as
ﬁrst-line treatment in symptomatic patients with
early acute ICA occlusion.
2. Endovascular treatment might be considered and
has acceptable clinical outcomes.
Carotid artery dissection
Carotid dissection may occur spontaneously, or it may
result from traumatic or iatrogenic injury. Diagnosis is
made with contrast-enhanced CTA, MRA or catheterbased angiography. The choice of appropriate therapy
remains controversial because most carotid dissections
heal on their own and there are no randomized trials

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

73S

Volume 75, Number 1S

to compare treatment options.490 Antithrombotic treatment with either an anticoagulant (heparin, low molecular weight heparin or warfarin) or a platelet inhibitor
(aspirin, clopidogrel or the combination of extendedrelease dipyridamole plus aspirin) for at least 3 to
6 months is reasonable in patients with carotid artery
dissection associated with ischemic stroke or TIA. The
number of adverse events does not signiﬁcantly differ
based on the medical therapy.491 The safety and effectiveness of therapy with alpha-adrenergic antagonist,
angiotensin inhibitor, or nondihydropyridine calcium
channel antagonist to lower blood pressure to normal
and reduce arterial wall stress are not well-established.
By contrast, intervention is reserved for symptomatic
patients with recurrent neurologic symptoms whose
symptoms have not responded to antithrombotic therapy after acute carotid dissection. Although open surgical repair with saphenous vein interposition graft is the
therapy of choice, it is associated with increased risk of
perioperative cerebrovascular events and CNI.492
With recent advances in endovascular technology,
percutaneous therapy with stent