),
members of the Writing Committee were not allowed
to serve as an ofﬁcer, board member, trustee, owner, or
employee of a company directly or indirectly involved
in the topic of this guideline. Before the ﬁrst and last
meeting of the Writing Committee, members were
asked to report any COI in writing. In addition, at the
beginning of each meeting this question was also asked
and if answered yes, the members were asked to submit
an updated COI form. These COIs included income
received from biomedical companies, device manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies, or other companies
producing products related to the ﬁeld. In addition, industry relationships had to be disclosed each time and
these included: ownerships of stocks or options or bonds
of a company, any consultancy, scientiﬁc advisory committee membership, or lecturer for a company, research
grants, or income from patents. These incomes could
either be personal or obtained by an institution with
which the member had a relationship. All disclosures
were reviewed by the three organisations, and these
can be found at IWGDFguidelines.org/. No company
was involved in the development or review of the guideline. Nobody else involved in the guideline received any
payment or remuneration of any costs.

DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY AS USED IN
THIS DOCUMENT
The deﬁnitions and criteria for diabetes related foot disease were standardised by the IWGDF and in parallel to
this guideline an update is published.24 In addition, in
this guideline the following terminology was used:
Bedside testing: any non-invasive test assessing for PAD
in the lower limb using a measure of blood ﬂow that
could be conducted at the bedside.

Chronic limb threatening ischaemia: a clinical syndrome
deﬁned by the presence of peripheral artery disease in combination with rest pain, gangrene, or foot ulcer of at least
two
weeks’
duration.
Venous,
embolic,
nonatherosclerotic, and traumatic aetiologies are excluded.
Diabetes related micro-angiopathy: pathological structural and functional changes in the microcirculation of
people with diabetes mellitus, which can occur in any
part of the body as a consequence of the disease.
Diabetes related foot ulcer: a break of the skin of the foot
that involves, as a minimum, the epidermis