 In open
PAA repair (OPAR), if the medial approach is used, the
aneurysm should be bypassed with proximal and distal
ligation of the aneurysm sac. Sac obliteration is desirable
but can be technically difﬁcult to complete. If the posterior approach is used, bypass and aneurysmorrhaphy
should be performed. In patients with very large PAAs
and compressive symptoms, the posterior approach is advantageous because it allows for complete decompression of the aneurysm sac. In some patients with PAA
who present with ALI, thrombolysis has been used as an
adjunct to EPAR or OPAR.
The reported data on PAAs were exhaustively evaluated
by a working group of experts appointed by the Document Oversight Committee of the Society for Vascular
Surgery (SVS). This working group identiﬁed seven guidelines from the available reported data using the Grading
of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and
Evaluation (GRADE) approach28 that represent the most
salient elements surrounding the treatment of patients
with PAAs and in the present report has presented these
guidelines, the evidence table (Table), and the
relevant literature to support their use. It is important to
note that in the management of PAAs, a dearth of highquality evidence is available to guide clinical decisionmaking. Rigorous well-controlled studies are badly
needed to establish further clarity in this clinical area. As
such, experienced clinicians can exercise considerable
latitude in their approach to treating these complex
patients.

METHODS
Guideline framework. Our expert panel used the
GRADE approach to rate the quality of the available evidence and to grade the strength of the recommendations. This system, adopted by many other organizations,
categorizes the recommendations as strong GRADE 1 or
weak GRADE 2 according to the quality of the evidence,
the balance between desirable and undesirable effects,
the patient’s values and preferences, and the required resources, feasibility and acceptability. GRADE 1 recommendations are meant to identify clinical practices for which
the associated beneﬁt clearly outweighs the risk. These
recommendations can be made by clinicians and
accepted by patients with a high degree of conﬁdence.
GRADE 2 recommendations are made when the beneﬁts
and risks are more closely matched and, as such, are more
dependent on speciﬁ