 CA and IMA are secondary targets if it is
not possible to revascularize the SMA or the clinical result
is inadequate. Several anatomic ﬁndings can complicate
the endovascular revascularization of the mesenteric vessels, as mentioned, including ﬂush aortic occlusion, small
caliber vessels, extensive calciﬁcation, the presence of
tandem lesions, and the extent of involvement (ie, lesion
length). Multiple reports have documented successful
endovascular revascularization for these scenarios,
although the long-term patency rates for these higher
risk lesions remains unclear and the requisite skill set
may not be universal. The use of balloon-expandable
intraluminal stents has replaced balloon angioplasty
alone for the treatment of de novo lesion. Balloonexpandable covered stents seem to have better longer
term patency, presumably owing to the prevention of tissue ingrowth through the interstices of the stent by the
fabric. A completion imaging study is an integral part
of any endovascular intervention and should be performed routinely. Intravascular ultrasound examination
and/or intraluminal pressure measurements can be
helpful to further interrogate any residual stenoses or lesions. The postoperative management after endovascular revascularization for CMI is comparable with other
catheter-based procedures, although it is possible for patients to develop multiple organ problems from the
ischemia/reperfusion injury similar to that seen after
open revascularization. All patients should be maintained on antiplatelet agents and a cholesterollowering agent, preferentially a statin, unless there is a
contraindication.
Detailed justiﬁcation
The endovascular revascularization for patients with
CMI is similar to the approach for the other vascular
beds in terms of access, imaging, choice of systems, device delivery, device deployment, management of

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

105S

Volume 73, Number 1S

complications, and medical therapy, with the majority of
the clinical decisions based on provider preference and
skill set. Both the femoral and brachial arteries are appropriate access sites, although an open brachial approach
may be favored based on the orientation of the mesenteric vessels (ie, posterior to anterior, cephalad