
embolization during CAS. The fact that no embolic protection is completely effective and that some emboli originate during cannulation of the aortic arch and the proximal
great vessels suggests that although improvements to embolization after CAS can be made, the problem cannot be
eliminated.
Studies using postoperative diffusion-weighted MRI
shown increased 17% incidence of MRI-identified infarcts
in patients undergoing CAS compared with CEA (adjusted
risk ratio, 5.21).10 Although these are generally subclinical,
recent reports suggest these lesions might be associated
with subtle long-term neurologic changes. Echolucent lesions are more likely to be associated with increased embolic risk, whereas recurrent stenoses or fibrous lesions are

e14 Ricotta et al

associated with a decreased risk of procedural embolization.66,96,165,184
Stent predilation is not recommended unless a filter
cannot be passed. Stent selection is often based on physician preference. The only large study to test the effect of cell
size suggests that closed-cell stents more effectively constrain the carotid plaque and reduce embolization,187 but
there is no consensus on that point. Open-cell stents are
more conformable than closed-cell stents and are preferred
by some in tortuous anatomy. Once the stent has been
deployed, postdilation is used to ensure stent apposition to
the plaque, but vigorous postdilation to achieve anatomic
perfection is avoided.
The learning curve associated with CAS has been the
object of considerable study. The Endarterectomy Versus
Angioplasty in Patients With Symptomatic Severe Carotid
Stenosis162 (EVA-3S) study was criticized because of the
requirement that interventionalists perform only 25 procedures to qualify for participation in the trial. The Carotid
Revascularization Endarterectomy versus Stenting Trial
(CREST) study required a significant lead-in phase for
interventionalists and documentation of low procedural
morbidity.188,189 It is worth noting that CREST is associated with the lowest periprocedural complication rate in the
literature. There are data in the literature that suggest
achieving a low predictable complication rate after CAS
requires a