aterals from the circumﬂex iliac and common
and deep femoral arteries. Inadequate pelvic circulation
can lead to sexual dysfunction as well as hip and buttock
claudication. Less frequently, colon or spinal ischemia may
ensue. For example, in the Canadian aneurysm study, the
risk of colon ischemia increased eightfold (0.3% to 2.6%)
when both internal iliac arteries were occluded compared
with when at least one of the internal iliac arteries was
preserved.419,420 Thus, all efforts should be made to preserve perfusion to at least one internal iliac artery.
Colonic ischemia after aortic repair is multifactorial in
origin, but ligation of a patent IMA during reconstruction

We recommend preserving blood ﬂow to at least one HA in
the course of OSR.

Management of associated intra-abdominal vascular
disease. Occlusive disease of the celiac artery and SMA is
present in 10% of patients, whereas renal artery disease
may occur in up to 40%. Because the morbidity and
mortality of aortic repair are increased by concomitant
renal or mesenteric reconstruction, such procedures are
indicated only in the presence of symptomatic disease.
Pearce and colleagues reported a 30-day mortality of
3% among 678 patients treated for AAAs with concomitant renal artery reconstruction.425 However, mesenteric
artery reconstruction combined with aortic reconstruction carries a higher mortality rate and should be
avoided unless it is clinically indicated.426 Thus, should
open AAA repair be required in the presence of renal or
mesenteric artery disease, a staged approach with initial
stenting should be pursued.

38

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaikof et al

January 2018
We suggest concomitant surgical treatment of other visceral
arterial disease at the time of OSR in symptomatic patients
who are not candidates for catheter-based intervention.

Table VIII. Estimated perioperative complications after
elective open surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm
(AAA)

Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Complication

Quality of evidence

B (Moderate)

All cardiac

15

Myocardial infarction

2-