 may result in hemorrhagic conversion of an
infarct or reperfusion injury.
There are no large series of patients treated in standard
manner from which to draw deﬁnitive conclusions
regarding optimal therapy in patients where

56S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

hemorrhage has been excluded by brain imaging. Some
surgeons use a heparin infusion to try to stabilize these
patients and prevent propagation of thrombus as part
of the immediate management, although there are no
conclusive data supporting this approach. There are
scant reports outlining the outcomes of CEA among patients who present with stroke in evolution. In general,
risk of stroke/death have been reported from 9.2% to
26%. However, this reﬂects patient heterogeneity and
lack of standard selection criteria for intervention.350
The lack of high-quality data in the treatment of stroke
in evolution precludes any clear conclusions regarding
management of these patients. However, many extrapolate data for improved results with early CEA for stroke
because these patient populations may overlap.
Crescendo TIA. Patients with crescendo TIAs, by deﬁnition, have not experienced a signiﬁcant volume of brain
infarcted. However, they do have a signiﬁcant amount
of brain at risk from a very unstable lesion with multiple
small emboli or a large ischemic brain penumbra owing
to hemodynamic compromise and poor cerebral autoregulation. In these cases, attention is directed at the
source of the symptoms: the carotid bifurcation disease.
This relatively rare clinical syndrome is characterized by
repetitive episodes of transient neurologic ischemia followed by return to normal neurologic status. The deﬁnition of crescendo varies, but generally includes multiple
events within a 24-hour period that do not respond to
antiplatelet therapy. High-grade stenosis of the carotid
bifurcation, often with associated ulceration or
thrombus, is a common ﬁnding. Brain imaging may not
reveal a signiﬁcant area of infarcted brain and there
may not be a large ischemic penumbra. Symptoms are
thought to arise from unstable carotid plaque with