 12-month intervals for
patients with an AAA of 4.0 to 4.9 cm in diameter.
Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

We suggest surveillance imaging at 6-month intervals for
patients with an AAA between 5.0 and 5.4 cm in diameter.
Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaikof et al

27

Volume 67, Number 1

Fig 3. Meta-regression of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) growth rate estimates by aneurysm diameter (see
primary source for individual study citations). The solid line represents the overall regression, the dotted line
connects estimates from the same study, and circles have diameters that represent amount of information.
(Adapted from Thompson SG, Brown LC, Sweeting MJ, Bown MJ, Kim LG, Glover MJ, et al. Systematic review and
meta-analysis of the growth and rupture rates of small abdominal aortic aneurysms: implications for surveillance intervals and their cost-effectiveness. Health Technol Assess 2013;17:1-118.).

Recommendations for imaging of the symptomatic
patient. In patients with abdominal or back pain, ultrasound imaging is recommended to determine whether
an AAA is present and to evaluate for the presence of
other causes of abdominal or back pain. If an aneurysm
is detected, the patient should have CT aortography
with timed intravenous injection of contrast material, if
it is not contraindicated, to exclude rupture and to facilitate operative planning. A patient presenting with a
large AAA and back or abdominal pain should be
referred for treatment as soon as an aneurysm is recognized, regardless of evidence for rupture or symptom
evolution or whether a CT scan has been completed.
If hemodynamic compromise is present or evolves
during the process of evaluation, further imaging studies
should be abandoned as care is escalated.
We recommend a CT scan to evaluate patients thought to
have AAA presenting with recent-onset abdominal or back
pain, particularly in the presence of a pulsatile epigastric
mass or signiﬁcant risk factors for AAA.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

B (Moderate)

TREATMENT OF THE