REVIEW ARTICLES
Cynthia K. Shortell, MD, SECTION EDITOR

A systematic review supporting the Society for Vascular
Surgery, the American Venous Forum, and the American
Vein and Lymphatic Society guidelines on the
management of varicose veins
Magdoleen H. Farah, MBBS,a,b Tarek Nayfeh, MD,a,b Meritxell Urtecho, MD,a,b Bashar Hasan, MD,a,b
Mustapha Amin, MD,a,b Indrani Sen, MBBS,c Zhen Wang, PhD,a,b Larry J. Prokop, MLS,d Peter F. Lawrence, MD,e
Peter Gloviczki, MD,c and M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,a,b Rochester, Minn; and Los Angeles, Calif

ABSTRACT
Background: Several diagnostic tests and treatment options for patients with lower extremity varicose veins have existed
for decades. The purpose of this systematic review was to summarize the latest evidence to support the forthcoming
updates of the clinical practice guidelines on the management of varicose veins for the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS),
the American Venous Forum (AVF) and the American Vein and Lymphatic Society.
Methods: We searched multiple databases for studies that addressed four clinical questions identiﬁed by the AVF and
the SVS guideline committee about evaluating and treating patients with varicose veins. Studies were selected and
appraised by pairs of independent reviewers. A meta-analysis was conducted when feasible.
Results: We included 73 original studies (45 were randomized controlled trials) and 1 systematic review from 12,915
candidate references. Moderate certainty of evidence supported the usefulness of duplex ultrasound (DUS) examination as
the gold standard test for diagnosing saphenous vein incompetence in patients with varicose veins and chronic venous
insufﬁciency (clinical, etiological, anatomic, pathophysiological classiﬁcation [CEAP] class C2-C6). High ligation and stripping (HL/S) was associated with higher anatomic closure rates at 30 days and 5 years when compared with radiofrequency
ablation and ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy (UGFS) (moderate certainty), while no signiﬁcant difference was seen
when compared with endovenous laser ablation (EV