 are candidates for intervention, we suggest superﬁcial venous
intervention over compression stockings.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
2.1.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the superﬁcial truncal veins, we suggest compression therapy for primary treatment if the
patient’s ambulatory status and underlying medical
conditions warrant a conservative approach, or if the
patient prefers conservative treatment, for either a
trial period or as deﬁnitive management.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. Compression garments of various strengths,
in addition to a healthy lifestyle, weight loss, exercise, and
the avoidance of prolonged standing or sitting, have long
been recommended to patients with varicose veins to
decrease the pain, discomfort, and swelling caused by
the congestion due to reﬂuxing and dilated superﬁcial
veins.20 Compression has been shown to decrease
acute symptoms78; however, no evidence has shown that
long-term compression is either curative or can arrest or
reverse the progression of CVD. An arbitrary 3-month
period of compression treatment before an intervention, often used by insurance companies before procedural authorization, also has not been supported by the
scientiﬁc evidence.
Evidence. A recent Cochrane review studied the effectiveness of compression stocking for patients with varicose veins.79 Data on 1021 patients with C2 to C4
disease from 13 RCTs were analyzed. A variety of
compression stocking ranging from 10 to 50 mm Hg had
been used in the studies, and none had reported the QoL
measures used to assess the outcomes. No side effects
were reported. The review concluded that “there is
insufﬁcient high-certainty evidence to determine
whether or not compression stockings are effective as
the sole and initial treatment of varicose veins in people
without healed or active venous ulceration, or whether
any type of stocking is superior to any other type.”79
The clinical outcomes at 2 years after conservative treatment (lifestyle modiﬁcations and compression stockings)
vs surgery (high ligation and saphenous stripping) were