 mm
and the access blood flow is ⱖ500 mL/min, there is a 95%
likelihood that the autogenous access will be usable for
dialysis. If the vein diameter is ⬍4 mm and the access blood
flow is ⬍500 mL/min, only 33% of autogenous accesses are
likely to be suitable for dialysis. If only one of the two
criteria is met, the likelihood of access success is intermediate (60% to 70%). Interestingly, the time from placement to
cannulation varies geographically: Autogenous accesses are
routinely cannulated ⱕ1 month of placement in Europe
and Japan, whereas the average time in the United States is
about 3 months.91
B. Monitoring and surveillance of an established access. The
KDOQI defines “monitoring” as including physical examination indicators such as observation, palpation, and auscultation of the access, whereas “surveillance” refers to
various tests to assess access function.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

Physical examination of the graft by trained nephrologists or dialysis staff is very effective in identifying accesses
with clinically significant underlying stenosis. Abnormalities on physical examination of the access (absent thrill,
abnormal auscultation, persistent edema of the access extremity, venous collaterals on the ipsilateral chest wall) have
a high positive predictive value for stenosis estimated at 80%
in prosthetic accesses.92-94
A number of surveillance tests have been found
useful in detecting access dysfunction. The four most
useful surveillance methods, which are described in the
KDOQI Guidelines, are (1) serial access flow measurement, (2) serial measurement of static dialysis venous
pressure, (3) prepump arterial pressure, and (4) DU
scanning. Unlike clinical evaluation, most surveillance
methods require the use of specialized equipment and
trained technicians. Each of these methods has a high
positive predictive value for identifying access dysfunction
when applied to the correct setting and to the indicated
type of access (autogenous or prosthetic access, catheter). A
description of how to perform these tests can be found in
the NKF-KDOQI Clinical