ectomy, because the distal
end point may not be sufﬁciently visualized with this
technique. Other authors have found no signiﬁcant
beneﬁt to completion imaging, and report excellent results without routinely using any type of completion
studies.3,341,417 Therefore, the routine use of completion
imaging after CEA remains controversial. The clinical signiﬁcance of many observed abnormalities is uncertain,
and it has not been deﬁnitively proven that routine performance of completion studies reduces perioperative
stroke risk. The decision generally remains a matter of
surgeon experience and preference.3
When a patient sustains a stroke during or immediately
following CEA, the chance of maximizing recovery depends
on early recognition of the neurologic event, establishing its
likely etiology, and immediate institution of appropriate
therapy or rescue measures.358,417 Establishing the diagnosis
of a perioperative stroke is typically a clinical diagnosis, but
may be supported by appropriate imaging studies.
Intraoperative stroke recognized upon awakening
from general anesthesia. When CEA is performed under
general anesthesia, a stroke is typically recognized when
the patient awakes after wound closure. If a new focal ipsilateral neurologic deﬁcit is identiﬁed, the incision should be
reopened immediately.417 The ICA can be assessed with
intraoperative Doppler in addition to visual inspection and
palpation. If the artery seems to be patent with ﬂow present,
further evaluation for technical deﬁcits should be performed with either intraoperative duplex ultrasound
examinaton or arteriography to identify correctable deﬁcits.
Angiography should include intracranial imaging to evaluate for distal intracerebral embolization. If the ICA is
without ﬂow, completely thrombosed, or an imaging study
reveals a signiﬁcant technical deﬁcit, the endarterectomy
site itself must be reexplored.417 The distal ICA should not be
clamped initially to appropriately perform repeat thromboendarterectomy without causing fracturing and intracerebral embolization of any local thrombus or debris. The
clot is carefully extracted with the hope that existing
backpressure will help to achieve complete removal of the
existing thrombus from