 has been concern about
splenic infarction or pancreatitis when embolization of

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

17S

Volume 72, Number 1S

very distal splenic artery lesions has been performed.104,105
In a review of 48 endovascular procedures for visceral artery pseudoaneurysms, 20 interventions on the splenic artery were performed.1 Six end-organ infarcts in this series
were identiﬁed; all were within the splenic bed. Two additional patients displayed splenic atrophy on CT scanning
after prior embolization of the splenic artery, without
obvious clinical evidence for initial splenic infarction. In
another report, one episode of splenic infarction associated with severe pancreatitis was noted after embolization of a distal splenic artery lesion.105 However, other
authors have noted splenic infarction after embolization
of even more proximal SAAs as well.7
Ruptured SAAs are challenging and represent a true surgical emergency. Patients should be expeditiously transferred to the operating room for exploratory laparotomy in
the setting of hemodynamic collapse. Ligation of the
splenic artery proximally and distally is required. Patients
presenting with ruptured SAA are most often treated with
concomitant splenectomy without vascular reconstruction.

superior to open surgery in this model. However, the authors concluded that elderly patients should be considered for conservative therapy, given the small
incremental beneﬁt and high cost. An open surgical
approach may remain appropriate in cases of rupture
and pregnancy-related SAAs107 as well as in the setting
of mycotic aneurysms.
Patients undergoing urgent ligation of SAA or splenectomy should be vaccinated on or after postoperative day 14 to decrease the risk of overwhelming
postsplenectomy sepsis due to organisms such as
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus inﬂuenzae
type B, and Neisseria meningitidis. Patients undergoing elective repair of SAA who are at risk of splenic
loss if the splenic artery cannot be preserved
with planned embolization or with known preoperative anatomic challenges to stent grafting that
could lead