 operative strategies:
A. AV accesses are placed as far distally in the upper
extremity as possible to preserve proximal sites for
future accesses (GRADE 1 recommendation, very
low-quality evidence).
B. When possible, autogenous AV accesses should be
considered before prosthetic arteriovenous accesses
are placed. These autogenous access configurations
should include, in order of preference, the use of
direct AV anastomosis, venous transpositions, and
translocations (GRADE 1 recommendation, very
low-quality evidence).
C. Upper extremity access sites are used first, with the
nondominant arm given preference over the dominant arm only when access opportunities are equal
in both extremities (GRADE 1 recommendation,
very low-quality evidence).
D. Lower extremity and body wall access sites are used
only after all upper extremity access sites have been
exhausted (GRADE 1 recommendation, very lowquality evidence).
2.1. Evidence
These recommendations were formulated mainly according to unsystematic observations and consensus of our
committee because there is paucity of high-quality evidence
to support them except what is cited to support recommendations 3 and 4.
2.2. Values and preferences
The operative strategies recommended by the committee place high value on optimizing patient outcomes such
as preventing death, access infection, and achieving a
longer period of time with successful dialysis. In addition,
the committee took into account patient comfort by recommending that the nondominant upper extremity be
used first when access opportunities are equal. This allows
the dialysis patient to use the dominant side to pursue

8S Sidawy et al

various functions while undergoing dialysis; however, the
best extremity for autogenous access should be used, regardless of dominance. In recommending distal upper extremity access sites, these recommendations place high
value on the preservation of proximal veins for future access
placement.
In addition, in recommending the use of autogenous
accesses first, except as stated in recommendation 4, the
committee did not favor the use of prosthetic access despite
features that may favor its use such as higher reimbursement, ready availability, and shorter time to first use. However, the committee would like to point out that in the push
to perform all autogenous AV access, substandard veins are
sometimes used for autogenous accesses, taking a long time