 incidence of lowflow etiologies proximal to the venous needle in autogenous accesses where VDP is measured.
Measurement of dynamic VDP (at a low dialysis blood
flow of 200 ml/min) is a relative poor marker of autogenous or prosthetic access stenosis. It is affected by multiple
factors, including the dialysis blood flow, needle diameter,
type of dialysis machine, and the patient’s blood pressure.
Better standardization can be achieved by measuring static
VDP (at zero dialysis pump blood flow). VDP needs to be
normalized for the systemic blood pressure. The ratio of
systolic VDP to systemic systolic blood pressure can be
suggestive of stenosis when the ratio of systolic VDP to
systemic systolic blood pressure is ⬎ 0.4.97 Use of mean

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

pressure ratio (more commonly obtained by the pressure
transducers on conventional dialysis systems) requires that
the ratio is ⬎0.5. The use of any given static venous
pressure ratio is not a reliable indicator of stenosis, especially in autogenous access; however, the best use of static
VDP measurement is as a trending tool, where trends of
increasing VDP may be indicative of stenosis.98 It is critical
to have a well-trained technician who performs the measurements in a standardized fashion and who calibrates the
transducers.
3. Prepump arterial dialysis pressure. Most dialysis machines currently in use have a pressure transducer connected to the blood line on the arterial side of the blood
pump. This prepump pressure is displayed on the information screen and indicates the ease (or difficulty) with which
blood is drawn from the access by the blood pump at any
given pump setting. This pressure is influenced by anything
that causes restriction of flow to the pump: the needle
gauge and length, the diameter and length of the blood
line, needle position in the access, and access blood flow.
After any needle or tubing problem has been checked as the
possible cause of unexpected increasingly negative arterial
dialysis pressure and corrected, inadequate access flow,
which is the most common cause of persistently elevated
prepump arterial pressure, will be the likely cause.
New aut