 abandonment
(RR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.43-1.37). Table II summarizes the
quality of evidence derived from this systematic review.
It is important to recognize that the value of surveillance strongly depends on the adequacy of clinical monitoring (physical examination and assessment of clinical
clues of access dysfunctions). Clinical monitoring by skilled
personnel was shown to have adequate diagnostic accuracy;
clinical monitoring has been reported to have positive
predictive value of 70% to 90% in prosthetic accesses and a
specificity of 90% and a sensitivity of 38% 93% in autogenous accesses.76-79 Therefore, in centers with skilled personnel, surveillance may not be as beneficial and produce
marginal benefit vs clinical monitoring, as outlined above.
However, this is not the practice in the real world, wherein
physical examinations are seldom conducted and the first
indication of an underlying stenosis is often access thrombosis. In this situation, surveillance may be more justified.
Furthermore, although access survival was no different
in members of the group who underwent surveillance, it is
possible that their lower incidence of thrombosis may translate into a reduction in access-related costs and hospitalizations, as demonstrated in a reanalysis of a small study by
Dossabhoy et al80 and by a quality improvement project

conducted by Wijnen et al.81 In the latter study, flow
surveillance produced a 32.5% reduction in the overall cost
of access care. Savings occurred chiefly in the prosthetic
access group and resulted from reduction in the number of
invasive procedures, central catheters, and hospitalizations.
Therefore, and despite the imprecision of evidence, surveillance of accesses may be justified.
5.2. Values and preferences
These recommendations place higher value on preventing access thrombosis and the associated cost, hospitalization, morbidity, and burdens and lower values on inconvenience and cost of surveillance and monitoring. In
addition, considering the low costs and harms associated
with clinical monitoring, access flow, and static dialysis
venous pressure measurements, we suggested these methods for routine surveillance to detect access dysfunction,
reserving DU scans for patients with accesses that show
symptoms and signs suggestive of impending access failure.
In these patients, the benefits of imaging studies are likely