 proceed with aneurysm repair.
Level of recommendation

2 (Weak)

Quality of evidence

C (Low)

OSR
Indications. OSR of an AAA continues to be used for
patients who do not meet the anatomic requirements
for endovascular repair, including short or angulated
landing zones, excessive thrombus, multiple large accessory renal arteries, and small and tortuous access vessels
with concomitant occlusive disease. However, fenestrated, branched, and chimney or snorkel grafts have
expanded the range of complex aortic anatomy potentially treatable by EVAR. OSR may be required for treatment of a persistent endoleak and aneurysm sac
growth after EVAR or for treatment of a mycotic aneurysm or infected graft.
Surgical approach. OSR can be performed using either
a transperitoneal or left ﬂank retroperitoneal approach
(Table VII). Indications for each type of approach are
largely based on the patient’s anatomy and comorbidities and the surgeon’s preference. The transperitoneal
approach is typically performed using a generous
midline incision from the xiphoid process to the symphysis pubis. Extension of the incision alongside the xiphoid process releases rectus aponeurosis and facilitates
exposure in the obese patient or in those with more
proximal aortic disease. A minilaparotomy (15 cm) has
been used in select patients. A transperitoneal approach
can be performed rapidly and is versatile, allowing
assessment of intra-abdominal disease and easy access
to the visceral and iliac arteries. Transverse incisions just
above the umbilicus also yield excellent exposure to the
suprarenal aorta and bilateral iliac bifurcations. Proponents of the retroperitoneal approach claim various
physiologic beneﬁts, including signiﬁcant reduction in
ﬂuid losses, cardiac stress, pulmonary complications, and
ileus. However, prospective randomized studies have
generated conﬂicting results.404,405 The measurable
beneﬁts attributed to retroperitoneal exposure were
primarily a shorter duration of ileus and earlier resumption of oral intake. Sieunarine and colleagues reported no
difference in a randomized comparison of transperitoneal