 of dextran use among patients undergoing CEA, objective clinical beneﬁt has not been
deﬁnitively demonstrated. Further, in a recent review
of the Vascular Study Group of New England, including
89 surgeons and 66641 CEA procedures performed
from 2003 to 2020, intraoperative dextran administration did not decrease the rate of perioperative stroke,
but it was associated with an increased incidence of
postoperative MI and congestive heart failure.146
Because this study investigated intraoperative dextran
use, an objective assessment of the clinical risk/beneﬁt
ratio of postoperative dextran is not possible. There is
clearly no Level 1 evidence to recommend for or against
use of dextran among patients undergoing CEA, so this
should be a clinical judgment made by the operating
surgeon.

Perioperative medical management for patients undergoing CEA and carotid stenting
Carotid endarterectomy. Perioperative medical management of patients undergoing CEA should include
blood pressure control, and beta blocker, statin, and antiplatelet therapy.
Postoperative hypertension is a well-recognized risk
factor for stroke and TIAs, wound bleeding, and intracranial hemorrhage.60,147-150 Therefore, strict attention to
preoperative blood pressure control, as noted elsewhere
in this article, is important in optimizing postoperative
outcomes. Postoperative ﬂuctuations of hypertension
and hypotension are not uncommon.
If hypotension does not respond to a ﬂuid infusion,
phenylephrine is accepted therapy with the dose
adjusted to maintain systolic blood pressure within
20 mm Hg of the preoperative level. Conversely, hypertensive episodes should be treated with an infusion of
nitroprusside. The effect is immediate, and can be
quickly removed with cessation of the infusion. Intravenous nitroglycerin may be administered for myocardial
ischemia.
MI is the most frequent non-neurologic complication
of CEA. Beta blockers should be continued in patients
undergoing noncardiac surgery who have been on
these drugs chronically. It may be reasonable to begin
perioperative beta blockers for patients with intermediate or high risk for myocardial ischemia, or for patients with three or