 small (<5 cm2), medium (5-10 cm2), and large (>10 cm2)
4. TPs are preferred for classiﬁcation of ischemia (I) in patients with diabetes mellitus, since ABI is often falsely elevated. TcPO2, SPP, and
ﬂat forefoot PVRs are also acceptable alternatives if TP is unavailable. All reports of outcomes with or without revascularization therapy
require measurement and classiﬁcation of baseline perfusion.
5. In reporting the outcomes of revascularization procedures, patients should be restaged after control of infection, if present, and/or after
any debridement, if performed, prior to revascularization (Table IV).
a. Group a patients: no infection within 30 days, or simple infection controlled with antibiotics alone
b. Group b patients: had infection that required incision and drainage or debridement/partial amputation to control
ABI, Ankle-brachial index; PVR, pulse volume recording; SPP, skin perfusion pressure; TcPO2, transcutaneous oximetry; TP, toe pressure.

four grades are based on simple clinical observations. This
system has been validated and correlates with amputation
risk. It should be noted that grade 3 infections are characterized by systemic or metabolic toxicity and are associated
with a very high risk of early amputation.
CLINICAL APPLICATION OF SVS WIfI
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM: TARGET PATIENT
POPULATION
The intent of this new WIfI classiﬁcation system is for it to
be applied to patients across a broad spectrum of lower
extremity atherosclerotic occlusive disease of varying severity
and distribution (Table II, a). It includes patients with ischemic
rest pain in addition to tissue loss with coexisting chronic PAD.
The following conditions are excluded: patients with pure
venous ulcers; acute limb ischemia; acute “trash” foot; or
ischemia due to emboli, acute trauma/mangled extremity;

and those with wounds related to nonatherosclerotic conditions such as vasculitis, collagen vascular disease, Buerger’s
disease, neoplasm, dermatoses, and radiation.
The target population for this system includes any
patient with:
Ischemic rest pain, typically in the forefoot with conﬁrmatory, objective hem