Serial imaging was available for 94% of the aneurysms,
and these patients received an average of 2.5 CT scans
during 4.6 years of follow-up. The average growth rate
was a nominal 0.2 mm/y during 3.1 years of follow-up.
There were again no ruptures or other complications
attributed to the aneurysms in the observed group.

16S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Observation of small, <3-cm, true aneurysms therefore
seems an appropriate approach except in women of
childbearing age.
Additional suggested indications for intervention in
SAAs include patients with portal hypertension, patients
who may require liver transplantation, patients whose
aneurysm has a nonatherosclerotic or nondegenerative
cause, and patients whose aneurysm demonstrates interval growth >0.5 cm/y.97

performed operation. This is clearly required when the
aneurysm involves intrasplenic branches within the
splenic parenchyma. Distal pancreatectomy may occasionally be warranted in treatment of these distal lesions
as well.98,99 Laparoscopic repair of SAA by clipping or
exclusion has been reported; intraoperative ultrasound
is believed to be an important adjunct to this procedure.100 Combined laparoscopic occlusion and coil embolization has been proposed as a treatment method for

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of SAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

In patients with ruptured SAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest treatment with
ligation with or without splenectomy, depending on the aneurysm location.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.2

In patients with ruptured SAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies, we suggest
treatment with open surgical or appropriate endovascular techniques based on the
patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.3

We suggest elective treatment of SAA using an endovascular approach if it is
anatomically feasible. However, elective treatment may appropriately involve open
surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods of intervention,