omatic clinically significant carotid
bifurcation stenosis should be considered in certain
groups of patients with multiple risk factors that increase
the incidence of disease as long as the patients are fit for
and willing to consider carotid intervention if a significant stenosis is discovered. The presence of a carotid
bruit in these patients increases the likelihood of a
significant stenosis (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
Such groups of patients include:
a. Patients with evidence of clinically significant peripheral vascular disease regardless of age.
b. Patients aged ⱖ65 years with a history of one or
more of the following atherosclerotic risk factors:
CAD, smoking, or hypercholesterolemia. In general,
the more risk factors present, the higher the yield of
screening should be expected.
5. Carotid screening may be considered in patients before
CABG. This is most likely to be fruitful if the patients
are aged ⬎65 years and have left main disease or a
history of peripheral vascular disease. The strongest
indication for screening these patients from the data
available is to identify patients at high risk for perioperative stroke (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence B).
6. Carotid screening is not recommended for patients with
AAA who do not fit into one of the above categories
(GRADE 2, Level of Evidence B).
7. Carotid screening is not recommended for asymptomatic patients who have undergone prior head and neck
radiotherapy. Although the incidence of disease is increased in this group of patients, the utility of intervention in the absence of neurologic symptoms has not
been clearly established (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence B).
II. SELECTING IMAGING MODALITIES FOR
CAROTID EVALUATION
The two most important features of carotid bifurcation
atheroma are the degree of diameter stenosis and the character of the bifurcation plaque. In addition to information
about the carotid bifurcation, there are clinical scenarios
where the clinician requires information on the status of the
vessels proximal or distal to the cervical carotid artery.
These factors need to be considered when choosing between imaging studies. It is common—but not universal—
to use multiple modalities when evaluating a patient with
suspected cervical carotid stenosis.
