 arterial clamps is mandatory.
Perioperative dexamethasone administration has been
shown to reduce risk of temporary CNIs during CEA
without reducing the prevalence of permanent CNIs.440
However, there is a remarkable paucity of data concerning
treatment of CNIs once they have happened.250
Nerve injury is most often caused by blunt stretch injury
to the nerves, which can occur with excessive traction;
frank nerve transection is extremely rare. Injury can also
result from electrocautery damage, inadvertent clamping, or from direct nerve transection.417 Nerve injury
may be more common during reoperative carotid surgery. Use of an intraoperative vagal nerve stimulator
may be helpful during reoperative carotid surgery to try
to avoid injury related to scar tissue.417
Iatrogenic CNI that occurs during CEA is most often
managed expectantly. Unilateral hypoglossal injury is
rarely serious.417 Vagus or recurrent laryngeal nerve
injury can result in paralysis of the ipsilateral vocal
cord, and typically manifests as hoarseness. Superior
laryngeal nerve injury can manifest by voice fatigue
and difﬁculty with voice modulation. The marginal
mandibular branch of the facial nerve may be injured
from traction during surgery or from administration of
cervical block anesthetic, and manifests as dropping
of the ipsilateral lip.417 Importantly, this should not be
confused with a postoperative stroke that may produce
facial asymmetry. Transient paresthesia of the marginal
mandibular nerve can be cosmetically upsetting to the
affected patient.
Summary and recommendations for the management of CNI after CEA. Cranial nerve injuries are best
avoided by meticulous knowledge of the relevant anatomy and careful dissection to prevent injury to contiguous nervous structures.
1. Once a CNI is diagnosed, expectant management is
typically indicated.
2. In rare cases, vocal cord paralysis may require otolaryngologic intervention, and bilateral vocal cord paralysis may require tracheotomy.
3. Vocal cord evaluation might be advisable in patients
with bilateral carotid stenosis post ﬁrst CEA and
before contralateral CEA.
4. In rare cases, critical glossopharyngeal