 had advanced CVD. In a series of
29 patients with a history of previous deep vein thrombosis (DVT) Puggioni et al80 did not ﬁnd an increased
incidence of thrombotic complications after RFA.
1.5.4. In symptomatic patients with varicose veins
(CEAP Class C2), evaluation for iliofemoral venous

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

13

Volume 12, Number 1

obstruction with DUS or with other imaging studies
should be performed if suprapubic or abdominal wall
varicosities are present and in patients with symptoms
of proximal obstruction, including thigh and leg fullness, heaviness, swelling and venous claudication.
CEAP Classes 3 through 6 warrant DUS or other imaging studies to evaluate for iliofemoral obstruction.
Rationale. Varicose veins can be associated with primary or secondary iliofemoral venous obstruction.
Although many C2 patients with simple varicose veins
need no evaluation for proximal venous obstruction,
those who have more advanced symptoms or signs
(C3-C6) due to iliofemoral disease need further investigation and appropriate treatment.
Evidence. In a recent systematic review of 944 limbs
with previous DVT or current deep vein obstruction,
most patients had iliofemoral venous disease and
advanced CEAP class (C4-C6).25 These patients had better results when vein ablation was combined with
treatment of iliac vein obstruction. It should be noted,
however, that few C2 patients were included in the review leaving this issue unexplored and unresolved. In the
case of iliofemoral venous obstruction, interventions on
the superﬁcial venous system should not impair venous
return from the limb. For this reason, in patients with
symptoms of proximal outﬂow obstruction, like venous
claudication, thigh swelling and pain, or in those with
suprapubic or abdominal wall varicosities, or with
continuous ﬂow and lack of respiratory variations in the
common femoral vein on DUS, investigation of the iliac
veins is warranted. During ablation of the incompetent
superﬁcial veins, coll