 therapies have demonstrated
beneﬁt for the treatment of VLUs in prospective RCTs.
Guideline 4.21: Preparation for Cellular Therapy
We suggest a therapeutic trial of appropriate
compression and wound bed moisture control before
application of cellular therapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - C] We recommend that adequate
wound bed preparation, including complete removal of
slough, debris, and any necrotic tissue, be completed
before the application of a bilayered cellular graft.
[GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We recommend additional evaluation and management of increased
bioburden levels before the application of cellular therapy. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

30S O’Donnell et al

Guideline 4.22: Frequency of Cellular Therapy
Application
We suggest reapplication of cellular therapy as long
as the venous leg ulcer continues to respond on the basis of wound documentation. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
The optimal frequency and timing of reapplication of
biologic skin substitutes to VLUs remain controversial
with little consensus in published studies. The initial pivotal
trial for Apligraf allowed up to ﬁve applications of the product during the ﬁrst 3 weeks of the study.259 Reapplication
was performed if the investigator thought that there was
less than 50% “take” of the skin equivalent on inspection
of the wound. Subsequent to this clinical trial, it has
been determined that living skin equivalents do not persist
in the wound for more than a few weeks, so “no take” occurs as is seen with autologous grafts. Other studies have
reported application at variable times, including weekly,
every few weeks, or once only.261 With no comparative
dosing studies published to determine clinical or economic
outcomes, the frequency of application remains at the
discretion of the clinician. Current clinical practice has
included application of grafts followed by a period of 1
to 3 weeks of observation to determine effectiveness before
reapplication is considered.
Guideline 4.23: Tissue Matrices, Human Tissues,
or Other Skin Substitutes
We suggest the use of a porcine small intestinal submucosa tissue construct in addition