 site, until proven otherwise. Other etiologies of
stroke in the immediate postoperative period include
embolization, intraoperative watershed infarction, and
intracranial hemorrhage.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

Of these four, early thrombosis at the endarterectomy
site is the most common.253 The status of the endarterectomy site should be determined. In most cases, this can be
done by emergency bedside ultrasound imaging. If thrombosis is confirmed, then operative exploration with repair
of the defect is indicated. Early re-exploration of an
occluded endarterectomy site with successful repair may
reduce long-term neurologic sequelae. Although there
are no control groups available for comparison, reexploration for symptomatic thrombosis has been associated with resolution of neurologic deficit in half to
three-quarters of patients.254-256
If imaging shows the endarterectomy site is patent,
other etiologies should be considered, specifically, distal
embolization or intracranial hemorrhage. Emergency head
CT to exclude hemorrhage is followed by anticoagulation
and angiography, with intracranial intervention according
to acute stroke guidelines. If capability for acute stroke
intervention is not available, then anticoagulation and
blood pressure support is indicated.
Acute stroke complicating CAS may result from embolization to the intracranial circulation during the procedure, occlusion of the angioplasty and stent site, or
intracranial hemorrhage. Because CAS procedures are performed on patients who are awake, ongoing neurologic
assessment is possible to guide evaluation and management. Management of acute, symptomatic intracranial embolization commonly reflects the current standard for intervention for acute stroke, as detailed in the previous
section. Management options, including catheter-directed
intra-arterial thrombolysis, clot dissolution or fragmentation with evacuation, and potentially, intracranial stenting,
may be used as appropriate.233,236-239,257 In selected cases,
perfusion imaging may also be of utility in determining
which patients will potentially benefit from intracranial
revascularization.245,246
Acute occlusion of the stent has rarely been