 procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then annually thereafter. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
3. We suggest surveillance with mesenteric DUS examination to identify recurrent stenoses after revascularization for CMI. A possible ultrasound surveillance
schedule includes within 1 month of the procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then
annually. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
4. We recommend performing a CTA or catheter-based
arteriograms to conﬁrm any restenoses detected by
DUS examination in patients with symptoms consistent with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low) (1C)
5. In patients with recurrent symptoms of CMI, we
recommend remedial treatment as recommended
for the de novo lesions. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select patients with asymptomatic recurrent stenosis, we suggest a shared decision-making approach
between the patient and provider to discuss revascularization as recommended for the de novo lesions.
Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low)
7. We suggest that the choice of revascularization for
recurrent stenoses should be similar to the de novo lesions with the endovascular approach recommended
as the initial option and open revascularization
reserved for lesions not amenable to the endovascular
approach. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)

INTRODUCTION
Chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) is caused by the failure to achieve postprandial intestinal blood ﬂow resulting in an imbalance between the supply and demand
for oxygen and other metabolites. This adverse hemodynamic event is typically caused by atherosclerotic occlusive disease at the oriﬁces of the mesenteric vessels (ie,
celiac artery [CA], superior mesenteric artery [SMA], inferior mesenteric artery [IMA]), although a variety of other
etiologies have been incriminated. The presence of
mesenteric artery occlusive disease (MAOD) is a relatively
common ﬁnding in the elderly population, particularly in
those with evidence of