needing revascularization (RR, 0.65;
95% CI, 0.43-0.97). Major bleeding
estimate was imprecise (RR, 1.73; 95%
CI, 0.51-5.83). In one trial,
clopidogrel had a modest advantage
over aspirin
Compared with placebo, maximal
walking distance for cilostazol and
pentoxifylline increased by 25% (11
to 40 m) and 11% (e1 to 24 m),
respectively. Pain-free walking distance
increased by 13% and 9%, respectively

A-B

B

A

A for cilostazol
and B for
pentoxifylline
(imprecision)

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CI, conﬁdence interval; OR, odds ratio; PAD, peripheral arterial disease; RCT, randomized
controlled trial; RR, risk ratio.
The effect of ramipril on walking performance in patients with IC was originally included but has subsequently been deleted
(see Supplementary Material on page 41S.e1, online only).

obstructive pulmonary disease, or arthritis) that may preclude them from participating. Patients should therefore be
evaluated to ensure their medical comorbidities are sufﬁciently well controlled to allow safe participation in such a
program. Many of the same factors that may render a patient
a poor candidate for exercise therapy should be considered
as relative contraindications to invasive treatments for IC
because they negatively affect the risk-to-beneﬁt analysis.
Thus, an initial attempt at exercise therapy is an appropriate
consideration for most patients with IC before revascularization. Although patients with severe hemodynamic
compromise may improve with an exercise program, there
are clearly patients with such advanced disease and disability
that meaningful participation in an exercise program is not

realistic. In addition, although supervised exercise programs
are the most effective and well-studied form of exercise
therapy, many U.S. insurance carriers do not currently
provide beneﬁts for participation in such programs. At present, this represents a major obstacle to the use of exercise
therapy for IC in clinical practice.
Components of an exercise program for IC. Exercise programs for IC potentially consist of various forms