 the bypass surgery patients.
Bypass surgery has also been shown to be associated
with superior functional improvement compared with other
treatment modalities by numerous investigators. Wolf
et al225 compared surgery and balloon angioplasty for peripheral vascular disease in a randomized fashion. Bypass
and angioplasty both showed sustained improvements in hemodynamics and QoL. Primary success was more often
achieved with bypass, but the differences were not signiﬁcant. Lundgren et al120 compared claudication patients
who underwent surgical reconstruction vs physical training
alone. Surgery was more effective, but the addition of physical training to surgery improved symptom-free walking distance even further. Surgery was signiﬁcantly better than
exercise therapy with regard to maximal walking time, ABI
improvement, and peak exercise calf blood ﬂow. A subgroup

26S Conte and Pomposelli et al

of patients whose activity was also limited by cardiopulmonary disease in addition to claudication failed to demonstrate
signiﬁcant walking improvement despite improvements in
ABI and calf ﬂow, emphasizing the importance of careful patient selection when recommending any intervention, especially surgery, for claudication.
In a systematic review of the efﬁcacy of bypass for
chronic limb ischemia, the probability of an achieving an
unlimited maximal walking performance, deﬁned as at least
1000 meters, was 75% to 95% in patients who underwent
bypass for claudication compared with only 10% to 20%
in those treated solely by exercise training.226 In another
study where patients were randomized to surgical bypass,
supervised exercise training, or observation alone, surgically
treated patients showed a signiﬁcant improvement in
maximal walking power, stopping distance, postischemic
blood ﬂow, and great toe pressure at 1 year.227 Patients
randomized to physical exercise training did not demonstrate improvements in any outcome measure. Mortality
and amputation rates were identical in both groups.
In a retrospective review, Koivunen and Lukkarinen228
demonstrated that surgically treated patients had superior clinical outcomes and health-related QoL compared with EVT
and conservative management. Speciﬁc improvements in surgically treated patients at 1 year included improvement in
pain