 number of key anatomic considerations that
directly inﬂuence the choice of an optimal surgical strategy in

Conte and Pomposelli et al 19S

AIOD. The nature and extent of aortic disease is preeminent. Axial imaging studies, typically CTA, are important
in the revascularization planning. The location and severity
of the occlusive lesions, as well as the presence of any aneurysmal changes, have direct implications. Noncontrast scans
are particularly helpful in preoperative planning to assess
calciﬁcation, which can severely complicate clamping and suturing. Total occlusions, most commonly up to the subrenal
aorta, are best approached by direct reconstruction with
thromboendarterectomy of the aortic cuff and an end-toend bypass graft in suitable candidates. Combined occlusive
and aneurysmal disease should be treated by complete exclusion of the aneurysmal segment rather than simple bypass.
When choosing between end-to-end and end-to-side aortic
graft conﬁguration, the extent of disease in the subrenal aorta
and the status of the pelvic circulation are major issues.167,168
There are no clear differences in long-term outcomes for
end-to-end vs end-to-side aortofemoral grafts169,170; however, the end-to-end technique requires less disease-free
aorta and the graft is somewhat easier to cover with retroperitoneal tissue. In general, proximal anastomoses should be
performed to the immediate subrenal segment (ie, the
zone between the renal and inferior mesenteric arteries)
because progression of atherosclerosis is highly likely in the
more distal abdominal aorta and may limit durability.
The pattern of iliac disease encountered may be highly
variable. Unilateral disease, with complete occlusion of both
common and external iliac arteries, or occlusion of the
external iliac artery alone, may be approached surgically with
either in-line (unilateral AFB or IFB) or extra-anatomic
(FFB or AxFB) strategies. The choice between these depends
on patient risk, status of the contralateral iliofemoral system
and contralateral groin, and suitability of the proximal common iliac or aorta for inﬂow anastomosis. The