380
Summary and recommendations.
Access.
1. Proper imaging of the aortic arch and carotid bifurcation are recommended preoperatively.
2. Transfemoral access can be used in younger patients
and aortic arch free of obvious disease.
3. Transradial and transbrachial access is especially
beneﬁcial in left ICA lesions in patients with bovine
anatomy or prior carotid subclavian bypass.
4. TCAR has advantages of avoiding the diseased
tortuous arch and providing CEA like protection.
Technical considerations
Use of cerebral protection devices/TCAR. Cerebral
protection devices have resulted in lower risk of distal
embolization. The results from the EVA-3S reported
signiﬁcantly lower 30-day stroke risk in patients undergoing transfemoral CAS with EPD compared with those
without EPD (7.5% vs 25%; P ¼ .03). An EPD was required
in all patients enrolled in the CREST, and the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services requires an EPD in all

patients undergoing CAS to be considered for reimbursement. A meta-analysis of more than 15,000 CAS
procedures showed a 45% decrease in stroke and death
with an EPD.359 Currently, cerebral embolic protection
can be achieved via distal microporous ﬁlters, distal occlusion devices, proximal occlusion with ﬂow reversal,
and with the TCAR with the dynamic ﬂow reversal neuroprotection system. The choice of device is often
dependent on physician preference and familiarity. The
distal ICA with minimal tortuosity and adequate diameter and length must be available for suitable placement
of a distal EPD.
Evidence regarding the superiority of one protection
device over another is limited. The Prevention of Cerebral Embolization by Proximal Balloon Occlusion
compared with Filter Protection during Carotid Artery
Stenting (PROFI) study is the only randomized trial
that compared ﬁlter-protected vs proximal balloonprotected transfemoral CAS. The study reported a
signiﬁcantly lower incidence of ischemic lesions after
proximal occlusion compared with distal ﬁlters (6.5%
vs 29