 therapy. The study
demonstrated that patients with the shorter duration
of compression had a greater reduction in leg volume
and experienced a lower number of complications.
Postoperative pain and time to full recovery did not differ
between the groups. The study concluded that wearing
compression stockings for a shorter time was not inferior
to compression for a longer time. It was not reported in
this study how many (if any) patients had underlying
deep venous insufﬁciency.
An endovenous laser ablation study of 109 patients
excluded those with deep venous insufﬁciency, venous
ulceration, more than one insufﬁcient vein per leg,
anticoagulation therapy, and phlebectomies. Outcomes
were compared for those using compression for 2 days
vs those using compression for 7 days after the procedure. All patients were treated with the 810-nm diode
laser with a bare-tip ﬁber. At 1 week, there was a signiﬁcant difference in the pain score and in physical dysfunction and vitality in favor of the longer period of
compression, but the advantages disappeared by
6 weeks. There was no difference in successful GSV
occlusion between the groups. These authors recommended that at the end of 48 hours, the patient should
be allowed to decide whether the inconvenience of
wearing stockings outweighed the possible pain and
reduced physical function associated with not wearing
them.27 In another study using the 810-nm diode laser,
compression was applied for 1 week postoperatively
using 20 to 30 mm Hg stockings. Complete resolution
of varicosities was noted in 42% of patients at 1 month,
with a reduction of varicose vein size in 56% of patients.
There were no complications related to the compression
therapy.30 Another study used the 1470-nm laser. Patients were excluded from this study if they had an
incompetent anterior accessory GSV, incompetent small
saphenous vein, deep venous insufﬁciency, DVT, hypercoagulability, general poor health status, aneurysmal veins
>2 cm in diameter, very tortuous veins, nonpalpable
pedal pulses, and inability to