5 years.
The incidence of a PAA in patients with an AAA has been
reported to range from 3% to 11%.24,54-56 This incidence appears to be greater in men with an AAA and in patients with
larger AAAs. Routine screening of all patients with small
AAAs for a PAA is controversial and may not be cost-effective.54,57 Men with larger AAAs may beneï¬t from DUS
screening of their popliteal arteries to detect a PAA.24,56
Recommendation 2: We recommend that patients
with an asymptomatic PAA >20 mm in diameter
should undergo repair to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications and limb loss (grade 1B). For
selected patients at higher clinical risk, repair can be
deferred until the PAA has become >30 mm, especially
in the absence of thrombus (grade 2C).
The optimal timing of intervention for asymptomatic
PAA remains unclear. The primary concern with PAA is
the development of thrombotic and embolic complications. Although the aneurysm diameter might not be
the best predictor for future thrombosis, it is readily
measurable and can be used broadly to stratify risk combined with other anatomic parameters. A decision to
treat should balance the risk of thromboembolism with
continued surveillance against the morbidity associated
with procedural intervention.

Elective intervention of PAAs has been shown to be
associated with superior outcomes in terms of limb
salvage compared with PAAs treated emergently. Using
size criteria alone, a general consensus has been
reached that elective intervention should be considered
for PAAs measuring $20 mm in diameter. This
threshold was selected to deter resection of mildly
dilated popliteal arteries and later reinforced given
that symptomatic PAAs typically exceed 20 mm in
diameter. In a study of 106 patients who were followed
up for a mean of 6.7 years, 67 asymptomatic limbs were
managed nonoperatively.17 In this cohort, symptoms
had developed in 12 limbs (17.9%). At least one of three
risk factors (ie, aneurysm size >20 mm, presence of
thrombus, and poor