 arm veins due to the increased
flow from the forearm prosthetic access, and if the venous
anastomosis is kept below the elbow, upper arm veins are

preserved for future use. In addition in the case of the
prosthetic access failing or failure, care should be directed
and the staff involved in the patient’s care should be informed not to involve the veins above the elbow in procedures designed to maintain or re-establish patency of the
prosthetic access.
There are additional techniques that are common to all
prosthetic access placements. The tunnel should be superficial enough for easy access for the dialysis staff. A 6-mm
PTFE prosthetic graft without rings is used for the conduit.
For patients at risk for ischemia, such as when the brachial
or lower extremity arteries are used for inflow, a tapered or
stepped graft should be considered for use with the smaller
end of the graft placed at the arterial end.
5. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: The role of
monitoring and surveillance in arteriovenous
access management
A. We recommend regular clinical monitoring (inspection, palpation, auscultation, and monitoring for
prolonged bleeding after needle withdrawal) to detect access dysfunction (GRADE 1, very low-quality
evidence).
B. We suggest access flow monitoring or static dialysis
venous pressures for routine surveillance (GRADE
2, very low-quality evidence).
C. We suggest performing a Duplex ultrasound (DU)
study or contrast imaging study in accesses that
display clinical signs of dysfunction or abnormal
routine surveillance (GRADE 2, very low-quality
evidence).
5.1. Evidence
A systematic review of 12 studies, 10 of which were
randomized, demonstrated that very low-quality evidence
yielding imprecise results suggested a potentially beneficial

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

Sidawy et al 13S

Table II. Continued.
Summary of findings
Patients, No.

Effect

Access surveillance

Watchful waiting

RR (95% CI)

Absolute

Quality

Importance

90/406

92/387

0.82 (0.58 to 1.16)

43 fewer per 1000

QŒŒŒ (