 of the patient. The
purpose of these guidelines is to inform the diagnosis, treatment options, screening, and follow-up of
visceral aneurysms based on the available published
literature and the Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE)
approach.5

METHODS
Guideline framework. The committee used the
GRADE approach to rate the quality of evidence (conﬁdence in the estimates) and to grade the strength of
recommendations. This system, adopted by >100 other
organizations, categorizes recommendations as strong
GRADE 1 or weak (also called conditional) GRADE 2
on the basis of the quality of evidence, the balance between desirable effects and undesirable ones, the patient’s values and preferences, and the required
resources.
GRADE 1 recommendations are meant to identify
practices for which beneﬁt clearly outweighs risk. These
recommendations can be made by clinicians and
accepted by patients with a high degree of conﬁdence.
GRADE 2 recommendations are made when the beneﬁts and risks are more closely matched and are more
dependent on speciﬁc clinical scenarios. In general,
physician and patient preferences play a more important role in the decision-making process in these
circumstances.
The Society for Vascular Surgery adapts GRADE so
that the level of evidence to support the recommendation is divided into three categories: A (high quality), B
(moderate quality), and C (low quality). Conclusions
based on high-quality evidence are unlikely to change
with further investigation, whereas those based on
moderate-quality evidence are more likely to be
affected by further scrutiny. Those based on lowquality evidence are the least supported by current
data and the most likely to be subject to change in
the future.
A GRADE 1 recommendation can occasionally be made
on the basis of low-quality (C) evidence. A full explanation of the GRADE approach has been presented to the
vascular surgery community.5-7 The Committee reached
consensus about all the recommendations and the level
of supporting evidence. These guidelines will require periodic updates to become a “living document” that will
be modiﬁed as techniques are further reﬁned, technology develops, medical therapy improves, and new data
emerge.

10S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 