 0.5 or if
absolute ankle pressure is >60 mm Hg. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - C]

A total of seven relevant publications were identiﬁed,57-63
of which one was a systematic review,58 one was a guideline published by the AVF and the SVS,57 and ﬁve were
nonrandomized observational studies.59-63 The AVF/SVS
guidelines were published in 2014 and used the same
methodology as the current report. We were not able to
identify any additional studies that were published subsequent to that report and that have sufﬁcient information
to consider modiﬁcation of the AVF/SVS guidelines.
The management of patients with venous ulcers is
often complex and time-consuming and uses a variety
of modalities including surgical procedures. A great
deal of time, effort, and expense goes into the healing
of these lesions. A variety of etiologic factors are associated with the development of these ulcers, and several
such factors persist after treatment is completed. Attention must be directed toward the modiﬁcation of these
factors when possible, and neutralizing the increased
venous leg pressure is a common goal in these patients.
Appropriate compression therapy using short-stretch
bandages, multilayer bandages, Unna boots, and various
forms of pneumatic compression is the keystone to
correcting elevated venous leg pressure in patients with
leg ulcers. Once ulcer healing has been achieved, it
becomes less feasible to continue these types of
compression modalities during patients’ everyday lives.
As a result, elastic stockings are prescribed for these
patients once the ulcers have healed regardless of the
underlying pathophysiologic process that initially led to
the development of the ulcer.
Two important aspects that may determine the success
of preventing ulcer recurrence using compression must

26

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

be considered. The ﬁrst of these is the technical ability of
the patient to actually don and doff the stocking
properly. This may be difﬁcult because of the patient’s
size, strength, or arthritic conditions that may make
manipulation of the heavy