 at the Mayo Clinic.12 The evidence in the other areas
was summarized and recommendations determined
by a consensus of the committee members.
The committee used the GRADE approach (Grades of
Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation) to rate the quality of evidence (conﬁdence in the estimates) and grade the strength of recommendations.13,14
This system categorizes recommendations as strong
GRADE 1 or conditional GRADE 2, based on the certainty
of evidence, the balance between desirable/undesirable effects, patient values/preferences, and resource use. GRADE
1 recommendations are meant to identify practices where
beneﬁt clearly outweighs risk. These recommendations
can be made by clinicians and accepted by patients with
a high degree of conﬁdence. GRADE 2 recommendations
are provided when the beneﬁts and risks are more closely
matched and are more dependent on speciﬁc clinical scenarios. In general, physician and patient preferences play a
more important role in the decision-making process in
these latter circumstances. The committee denoted strong
and conditional recommendations by stating “recommend” and “suggest,” respectively. The certainty of evidence
to support the recommendation in either GRADE is divided
into three categories: A (high certainty), B (moderate certainty), and C (low or very low certainty). Conclusions based
on high-certainty evidence are unlikely to change with
further investigation, whereas those based on moderatecertainty evidence are more likely to be affected by further

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

91S

Volume 73, Number 1S

scrutiny. Those based on low-certainty evidence are the
least supported by current data and the most likely to be
subject to change in the future. The committee also
made some statements that were labeled as ungraded
good practice statements.15 These statements did not
have direct supporting evidence, but had ample indirect
evidence and would be considered by many surgeons as
surgical principles.
Diagnostic evaluation
Recommendations.
1. In patients with abdominal pain, weight loss, and
food fear, we recommend an expedited workup to
exclude gastrointestinal malignancies and other potential causes. The expedited workup may include
an esophagogastroduodenoscopy, a colonoscopy, an
abdominal CT scan, and an abdominal ultrasound