 EVT compared
with open surgical bypass for the treatment of IC is low.
Consequently, the decision of which modality to use must
be individualized and should take into account other clinical
factors beyond arterial anatomy, including periprocedural
risks, availability of conduit, and anticipated risk of wound
complications. Patient preference, after full consideration
of the trade-offs, plays an important role as well.
FP revascularization: Catheter-based intervention.
IC can be caused by occlusive lesions in the aortoiliac
segment (see previous section), as well as the CFA, SFA,
profunda femoral, and popliteal arteries. How often occlusive lesions conﬁned to the infrapopliteal arteries result in
claudication remains unclear. Treatment of isolated infrapopliteal disease for relief of claudication is not advised.
In patients with multisegment disease, the more proximal
disease should be treated ﬁrst and usually results in
improvement in symptoms without extending treatment
to the more distal arteries. Endovascular interventions are
generally safe, with infrequent complications and lower
levels of morbidity, mortality, and an earlier return to
normal function than surgical bypass.
EVT options for FPOD include PTA alone, especially
for short focal lesions <4 cm,193 angioplasty with selfexpanding stents,194 angioplasty with balloon-expandable
stents,195 angioplasty with covered stent grafts,196,197 atherectomy,198-200 antimyoproliferative drug-coated balloons,201-203 and drug-eluting stents (DESs).204
Combination EVT involving atherectomy and DESs has
been reported in European trials.205
Signiﬁcant occlusive lesions of the CFA are generally
treated with surgical endarterectomy and patch angioplasty,
except in patients with signiﬁcant comorbidities or hostile

groins precluding surgical treatment. Combined open and
endovascular hybrid procedures involving CFA endarterectomy and then angioplasty of either proximal iliac artery lesions (see above) or distal SFA lesions been shown to be
effective for the management of claudication.206,2