 undergo
an intervention to treat symptomatic incompetent superﬁcial truncal veins and varicose tributaries. No evidence is available to support the beneﬁt of a trial of
3 months of compression therapy before offering surgical
or endovenous intervention for most patients.
Thus, the panel adopted the previous SVS/AVF guidelines20 and recommends intervention over compression
stocking alone for those who are candidates for a procedure and willing to undergo an intervention to treat
symptomatic incompetent superﬁcial truncal veins and
varicose tributaries. The patient’s ambulatory status and
any underlying medical conditions must be considered
in making a treatment recommendation. The decisionmaking should be shared, and patients might elect to
undergo a trial with compression or choose deﬁnitive
treatment using compression alone.
Guideline 2.2.
2.2.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the GSV who are candidates for
intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over high ligation and stripping of the
GSV because of less postprocedure pain and morbidity
and an earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: B (moderate)
2.2.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the SSV who are candidates for
intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over ligation and stripping of the SSV
because of less postprocedure pain and morbidity
and an earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
2.2.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the AAGSV or PAGSV who are candidates for intervention, we suggest treatment with
endovenous ablation, with additional phlebectomy, if

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

241

Volume 11, Number 2

Table I. PICO (patients, intervention, comparison, outcome) data of studies conﬁrming beneﬁt of duplex ultrasound (DU) in
evaluation of venous reﬂux
Investigator

Patients/limbs