, Ankle-brachial index.

produces a grid with 64 theoretically possible clinical
combinations (WIfI classes). To deﬁne initially the system’s
potential clinical applicability, a Delphi consensus process
was carried out by members of the SVS Lower Extremity
Guidelines Committee and recognized experts in the ﬁeld
of chronic limb ischemia. This 12-member group was
instructed to use the classiﬁcation system to address two
questions. First, what is the perceived risk of amputation
for each possible combination? Second, what is the
perceived beneﬁt from revascularization for each possible
combination? This exercise was designed to deﬁne stages
of disease that might subsequently be useful for clinical
decision-making and prospective studies.

AMPUTATION RISK ACCORDING TO WIfI
CATEGORY
Each member of the Delphi Consensus group was asked
to assign a limb threat clinical stage to each of the 64 theoretical patient combinations that would correlate with risk of
amputation (stage 1 - very low; stage 2 - low; stage 3 moderate; and stage 4 - high). The results of this Delphi
Consensus process are depicted in Table IV, a, which represents the consensus of the 12-member panel with respect to
their assessments of the one-year risk of amputation with
medical therapy alone for each of the 64 possible presentations. In general, risk of amputation was believed to increase
as one proceeds down and to the right (increasing severity of
each of the individual WIfI score components). Lesser grades
of ischemia (below that which corresponds to the current
deﬁnition of CLI) were uniformly believed to contribute
to an increased risk of amputation as wound complexity
and degree of infection increased. Inter-rater reliability was
assessed by the intraclass correlation (ICC) using a twoway random effects model evaluating absolute agreement.71

The ICC was high with a single measures coefﬁcient of .81
and an average measures coefﬁcient of .98.
REVASCULARIZATION BENEFIT ACCORDING
TO WIfI CATEGORY
Distinct from the anticipated risk of amputation, an
important question for the vascular specialist is to assess
the potential beneﬁt from successful revascularization,
which is strongly inﬂu