atheterization should be considered in appropriate
patients.447
The risk of cardiovascular complications after CAS is
very minimal compared with CEA. Data from randomized trials demonstrate signiﬁcantly lower numbers of
periprocedural MIs after stenting.5,7,8 Performing CAS under local anesthesia is associated with signiﬁcantly lower
risk of MI and other cardiac complications.365
The use of a higher contrast load with CAS, as opposed
to CEA, can lead to contrast-induced nephropathy, especially in CKD patients. The amount of contrast used during the procedure should be minimized and not exceed
60 mL. Adequate ﬂuid resuscitation should be provided
to minimize risk of acute kidney failure.
Summary and recommendations for the management of perioperative MI risk after CEA.
1. Perioperative MI after CEA is best avoided by appropriate preoperative treatment of relevant atherosclerotic risk factors, screening for coronary artery
disease when appropriate, and standard pharmacologic management of atherosclerosis during the perioperative period.
2. All patients undergoing CEA should be treated with a
statin medication, unless a contraindication exists.
3. All patients undergoing CEA should be maintained
on either single or dual antiplatelet medication
throughout the perioperative period, unless a contraindication exists.
4. Patient with a coronary drug-eluting stent should be
maintained on dual antiplatelet medications whenever feasible.
5. Early recognition of perioperative MI should occur to
allow appropriate individualized therapy including
medical or pharmacologic interventions, or urgent
cardiac catheterization/percutaneous coronary intervention when deemed appropriate.
Wound hematoma after CEA
The reported incidence of signiﬁcant perioperative
bleeding after CEA is 0.7% to 3.0%.417 Most cases of clinically signiﬁcant bleeding result from diffuse capillary or
soft tissue oozing owing to intraoperative heparinization
and/or antiplatelet agents. At the completion of CEA,
administration of protamine to achieve heparin reversal
seems to decrease the incidence of signiﬁcant wound
hematoma.248 Although many vascular surgeons
routinely use drains after CEA, there has been no demonstrable decrease in risk of reexploration for bleeding
when drains