 Similarly, the treatment of IC may provide no beneﬁt
to patients with signiﬁcant ischemic or structural heart disease,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, morbid obesity, stroke,
etc. In addition, such patients present a greater risk of complications or death, potentially outweighing the beneﬁt of treatment, especially when surgery is required.
Numerous studies have demonstrated the efﬁcacy of
both endovascular and surgical therapy for the relief of
symptoms of claudication by reducing pain and improving
walking distance as well as gains in QoL and ambulatory
function. Both forms of revascularization appear superior
to medical therapy for limb-related outcomes, although
not necessarily to supervised exercise training.74,108,126
Pharmacologic treatment with cilostazol is a modestly
effective and less expensive alternative to invasive treatment127 and may be appropriate in some patients. In

16S Conte and Pomposelli et al

most claudicant patients being evaluated initially, a 6month trial of smoking cessation, risk factor modiﬁcation,
exercise, or cilostazol, or a combination, should be initiated
before any invasive therapy.
Surgical and endovascular therapy (EVT) are likely to
be similar in efﬁcacy overall, although the quality of supporting evidence comparing the two is poor and the likelihood of durable clinical success different, especially for
extensive disease, more distal disease, and disease involving
the common or deep femoral arteries where surgery is usually preferred. Speciﬁc factors predicting treatment success
should be carefully considered in each individual before
determining the optimal strategy.
Anatomic patency and hemodynamic improvement are
considered necessary (although not sufﬁcient) for clinical
success of revascularization in IC. In the setting of IC,
where the limb is not threatened and the natural history
is generally benign, durable beneﬁt at low risk is required
to justify invasive vascular treatment. The anatomic spectrum of disease in IC is broad, and has a major impact
on both technical success and durability of vascular interventions. In selecting a revascularization strategy for
patients with IC, the expected durability in the circumstance at hand should be carefully considered. We suggest
that a minimal effectiveness threshold for invasive therapy
in IC be a >50% likelihood of sustained clinical improvement for