 documented conﬂicts of
interest was greater than or equal to the number
with reported conﬂicts of interest. Importantly, these
guidelines are speciﬁc for lesions isolated to the
descending thoracic aorta (DTA) that require coverage
of zones 2 to 6.3 Those patients with aortic disease
within the aortic arch requiring coverage at or proximal to the left carotid artery (zone 0 or zone 1) are
excluded from these guidelines. Furthermore, whereas
we included management of the celiac artery (CA)
when coverage is required for distal seal and ﬁxation,
the subject of management of any other visceral arteries was excluded from these guidelines.
An outline developed by the writing group included
the following: anatomy of the thoracic aorta; aortic
pathologic processes to be covered, that is, thoracic
aortic aneurysms (TAAs) and acute aortic syndromes
limited to penetrating aortic ulcer (PAU) and intramural hematoma (IMH), exclusive of traumatic injuries
and dissection; diagnostic ﬁndings; and comparison of
the advantages and disadvantages of available imaging
modalities in various settings. Further topics included
the perioperative management of patients with
thoracic aortic disease, speciﬁcally mitigation of the
perioperative risk of spinal cord ischemia, stroke, and
renal failure, and evidence-based recommendations
regarding the management of the left subclavian artery (LSA) and CA when coverage of those vessels is
deemed necessary for “successful” repair. Additional
recommendations focused on arterial access, differential management of elective and urgent/emergent
TAA, and optimal surveillance intervals after TEVAR.
Finally, we considered special problems, including

possible volume-outcome relationship, related to repair
of TAA.

DOCUMENT REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The committee developed the practice guideline by
assigning members to create primary drafts of each section of the document based on the aforementioned
outline, highlighting speciﬁc areas where recommendations were needed and appropriate. Each section was
then placed into a single document, compiled, reviewed,
and revised by the writing group, led by the Chair. All
guideline recommendations were reviewed by the full
committee and ﬁnalized through an iterative, consensus
process. In considering available treatment modalities to
be