563 ($430-$50,967). Signiﬁcant contributing factors
were outpatient facility fees ($10,332) and visiting nurse
services ($11,365) related to extended treatment of the
open VLU. Patients who failed to heal their ulcer during
the duration of this study (20%) had a threefold increase
in their costs ($33,907). Those patients who had recurrence of their VLU (N ¼ 17; 20%) during the follow-up
period had a total mean cost of $12,760. Inpatient admission, of which nearly two thirds was for treatment of infections that were resistant to therapy in an outpatient setting,
markedly increased costs ($33,629). By contrast, VLU
treated with surgical intervention of the superﬁcial venous
system did not signiﬁcantly increase total cost over that of
patients receiving best medical therapy ($11,960 vs
$12,304) but signiﬁcantly reduced recurrence rates (34%
vs 5%). By, contrast, patients treated for outﬂow obstruction had a twofold increase in total costs ($24,241 vs
$11,960).

12S O’Donnell et al

Value of Clinical Practice Guidelines for Venous
Leg Ulcer Care. The value of developing and implementing clinical practice guidelines should be to provide quality
of care without a dramatic increase in cost. This focus on
“best outcomes for the most reasonable health care dollar”
has stimulated many organizations, such as the SVS and
AVF, to develop and to promote a uniﬁed set of guidelines
for treatment of chronic diseases, such as VLUs. An
evidence-based analysis of treatment options should
decrease the variations in care while at the same time
ensuring that resources are used in an optimal manner.
Specialty societies, as in the current SVS and AVF guideline,
develop clinical practice guidelines either by independent
review of available studies or by employing evidence from
technology assessments and other published guidelines. For
the development of comprehensive clinical practice guidelines on VLUs that would be of value to providers and the
health care system in general, an expert panel needs to
evaluate the efﬁcacy of individual wound