 for including the full spectrum of patients
with primary varicose veins. CHIVA is a complex approach,
and a high level of training and experience is needed to
attain the results presented in this RCT. However, the
results achieved by a few outstanding interventionists does
not support offering this procedure to all practitioners.
Although CHIVA has called attention to the importance
of directing surgical procedures toward the patient’s
venous anatomy and function, it still requires considerable education of venous interventionists willing to learn
this approach.
Results with ASVAL. Good clinical results have been
reported with the ASVAL procedure in a select group of
patients. After 4 years of follow-up, no reflux or minimal
reflux (⬍500 ms) was found in 66.3% of 303 limbs, and
symptoms improved in 78% and varicose vein recurred in
only 11.5%.126
Current selection criteria for the ASVAL procedure
include patients with mild CVD, with either a competent
terminal valve or segmental saphenous reflux, and no or
minimal symptoms. Most had a GSV diameter ⬍8 mm or
SSV diameter ⬍6 mm. Although promising in this group of
patients with largely cosmetic concerns, the technique is
not generalizable and has not been evaluated in any comparative studies against well-validated surgical techniques
(GRADE 2C).
Recurrent varicose veins. Recurrent varicose veins
after surgical treatment are a serious problem, and many
patients require additional interventions. Surgery for recurrence represents a considerable proportion of the workload
of surgeons operating on varicose veins. The operations are
technically more demanding and complicated than firsttime operations.
Recurrent varicose veins after surgery (REVAS) have
been reported at rates ranging from 6.6% to 37% at 2
years177,215,216 and up to 51% at 5 years.217-222 Most
studies reported 2-year clinical recurrence rates of 20% to
37% after conventional or cryostripping, when residual or
recurrent varicose veins noted by both the patient and the
surgeon were counted.216,220 In a 