 risk scoring scheme
provide utility to surgeons, patients, and families in
guiding recommendations for repair in the high-risk
patient?
d Can perioperative mortality risk scoring schemes be
further reﬁned to enhance their predictive ability?
d Does a frailty assessment enhance our ability to identify those patients who will not beneﬁt from aneurysm
repair?
d Can a single risk-beneﬁt scoring scheme be developed
that incorporates risk of repair, risk of aneurysm
rupture, and anticipated life expectancy?
d Would a risk-beneﬁt scoring scheme that incorporates
risk of repair, risk of aneurysm rupture, and anticipated
life expectancy assist in mutual decision-making between the surgeon, the patient, and the patient’s family?
d Will a deﬁned system of care and associated time
benchmark from ﬁrst medical contact to intervention
improve outcomes for the patient with a ruptured
aneurysm?
d Which
factors are most important in optimizing
patient outcomes within a system of care for the treatment of a ruptured aneurysm?
d Is prophylaxis for deep venous thrombosis needed for
the patient undergoing EVAR?
d Does the patient undergoing OSR and at low or moderate risk for deep venous thrombosis beneﬁt from
heparin prophylaxis?
d What is the optimal hemoglobin level that necessitates
transfusion in the stable postoperative patient without
ongoing blood loss?
d What is the optimal interval, imaging modality, and
duration for postoperative surveillance after aneurysm
repair?
d What is the most cost-effective and clinically effective
surveillance protocol for the patient after EVAR?
d

REFERENCES
1. Brewster DC, Cronenwett JL, Hallett JW Jr, Johnston KW,
Krupski WC, Matsumura JS, et al. Guidelines for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Report of a subcommittee of the Joint Council of the American
Association for Vascular Surgery and Society for Vascular
Surgery. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:1106-17.
2. Chaikof EL, Brewster DC, Dalman RL, Makaroun MS, Illig KA,
Sicard GA, et al. The care of patients with an abdominal
aortic aneurysm: