. However, the level of evidence to support
this observation is much lower than that for CEA and
transfemoral CAS.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

41S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Risk
stratiﬁcation
based
on
patient-speciﬁc
characteristics
Patient-speciﬁc factors can inﬂuence outcome
following carotid revascularization. These factors include
nonvascular hostile anatomy such as previous neck surgery or radiation. The second category of patientspeciﬁc factors includes physiologic comorbidities such
as congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive lung disease, and renal insufﬁciency. This section examines the
inﬂuence of patient-speciﬁc factors on outcomes after
various revascularization options.
High risk for CEA.
Hostile nonvascular anatomy. Several anatomic situations may increase the difﬁculty of CEA. These include
reoperation after prior CEA, existence of a cervical stoma,
history of neck radiotherapy with resultant local ﬁbrotic
changes of the skin and soft tissues, and previous ablative neck surgery such as radical neck dissection and laryngectomy.171,182-184 Previous cervical fusion or severe
cervical kyphosis or immobility owing to arthritis can also
make CEA more technically challenging. Although CEA
can be performed successfully in these situations,
particularly when the tissues of the ipsilateral neck are
not scarred and ﬁbrotic, these circumstances can increase risk of wound infection, difﬁculty of dissection,
and potentially, risk of CNI. Among obese patients, the
presence of a short neck may make dissection more
tedious but has not been associated with increased
operative risk.
Medical high risk. It seems intuitive that the risk of periprocedural events after CEA or CAS might be increased
in patients presenting with severe comorbid conditions,
including dialysis-dependent renal failure, New York
Heart Association functional class III or IV heart disease, a
left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 30%, class III
or IV angina pectoris, left main or multivessel coronary
disease, severe aortic valvular disease, oxygen- or steroiddependent pulmonary disease