)

C (low to
very low)

Good clinical practice statement
8.2.

For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the major superﬁcial venous trunks and associated varicosities undergoing initial
ablation alone, we recommend follow-up for >3 months to assess the need for staged phlebectomy or ultrasound- guided
sclerotherapy for persistent or recurrent symptoms. Longer follow-up is recommended for those with recurrence or more
advanced CEAP class.
9. Management of recurrent varicosities

Consensus statements
9.1.1.

For patients with symptomatic recurrent varicosities, clinical evaluation and DUS
should be performed before treatment to determine the potential source of
recurrence.

9.1.2

For patients with symptomatic recurrent varicosities due to persistent or recurrent
reﬂux of the GSV or AAGSV, treatment either with open surgical or endovascular
techniques may be performed, with good outcomes expected.

9.1.3.

For patients with symptomatic recurrent varicosities due to persistent or recurrent
reﬂux at the groin, either EVLA or RFA can be used if there is a straight GSV stump,
long enough for thermal ablation. Sclerotherapy or phlebectomy should be
performed for recurrence due to neovascularization.

9.1.4.

For patients with symptomatic recurrent varicosities due to persistent or recurrent
reﬂux of the SSV, UGFS should be performed.

9.1.5.

For patients with residual or recurrent varicosities due to incompetent perforator
veins, treatment with both open and endovascular techniques may be used
depending on the physician’s experience, patient choice and availability of
technology.
10. Ablation of incompetent perforating veins

Guidelines

Grade of
recommendation

Quality of
Evidence

10.1.1.

For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class C2) who have signiﬁcant, symptomatic axial
reﬂux of the GSV or SSV, we recommend against treatment of incompetent perforating
veins concomitant with initial ablation of the saphenous veins.

1 (strong)

C (low to
very low)

10.1.2. For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class C2) who have signiﬁcant