 also dependent on the severity of outﬂow disease.187 As a result of these limitations, AxFB is rarely
advised for patients with claudication. When used in circumstances such as aortic graft infection or mycotic aneurysm,
patients will often report some degree of functional limitation with aggressive exercise due to the inherent hemodynamic limitations of the long axillofemoral conduit.

Recommendations: Interventions for aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD) in intermittent claudication (IC)

5.3.
5.4.
5.5.

5.6.

5.7.

5.8.

5.9.

5.10.
5.11.

5.12.

5.13.
5.14.

5.15.

We recommend endovascular procedures over open surgery for focal AIOD causing IC.
We recommend endovascular interventions as ﬁrst-line revascularization therapy for most
patients with common iliac artery or external iliac artery occlusive disease causing IC.
We recommend the selective use of BMS or covered stents for aortoiliac angioplasty for common
iliac artery or external iliac artery occlusive disease, or both, due to improved technical success and
patency.
We recommend the use of covered stents for treatment of AIOD in the presence of severe
calciﬁcation or aneurysmal changes where the risk of rupture may be increased after
unprotected dilation.
For patients with diffuse AIOD (eg, extensive aortic disease, disease involving both common and
external iliac arteries) undergoing revascularization, we suggest either endovascular or surgical
intervention as ﬁrst-line approaches. Endovascular interventions that may impair the potential for
subsequent AFB in surgical candidates should be avoided.
EVT of AIOD in the presence of aneurysmal disease should be undertaken cautiously. We
recommend that the modality used should either achieve concomitant aneurysm exclusion or
should not jeopardize the conduct of any future open or endovascular aneurysm repair.
In all patients undergoing revascularization for AIOD, we recommend assessing the CFA. If
hemodynamically signiﬁcant CFA disease is present, we recommend surgical therapy
(endarterectomy) as ﬁrst-line treatment.
In patients with iliac artery disease and involvement