, particularly the SMA, we suggest a shared
decision-making approach between the patient and
provider to discuss revascularization as a treatment
option. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD, we
suggest a shared decision-making approach between
the patient and provider to discuss revascularization
as a treatment option. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
7. We recommend that asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD be closely followed for symptoms consistent with CMI. A possible follow-up schedule includes
an annual evaluation with a mesenteric DUS examination. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
8. In patients with severe MAOD involving the SMA undergoing aortic reconstruction, both open and endovascular, we suggest a shared decision-making approach
between the patient and provider to discuss

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

89S

Volume 73, Number 1S

revascularization as a treatment option. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
9. In patients with combined MAOD and mesenteric artery aneurysms, we recommend revascularization at
the time of treatment for their mesenteric artery aneurysms if the repair alone would disrupt the collateral network. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Choice of treatment
Recommendations.
1. The choice of treatment for patients with CMI should
be a shared decision-making process between the
patient and provider considering the risks/beneﬁts of
the various options and the patient’s goals of care.
(Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend endovascular revascularization as
the initial treatment for patients with CMI and suitable lesions. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend reserving open surgical revascularization for patients with CMI who have lesions that are not
amenable to endovascular therapy, endovascular failures, and a select group of younger, healthier patients
for whom the long-term beneﬁts may offset the
increased perioperative risks. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence