functional access maybe even harmful because the patient may continue to be dialyzed using percutaneous catheters, with their intended complications, while waiting for
the autogenous access to dilate and mature.
An access that has failed to mature is patent but not
functional.12 Failure to mature is more frequently an issue
with autogenous AV accesses than prosthetic grafts. As
recommended by the FFBI, every new autogenous access
should be evaluated for development at 4 weeks. If the
access is not adequately maturing by four weeks or not
functional by 12 weeks (ie, access flow ⬍500 ml/min, a
recirculation higher than 10%, or inability to cannulate), a
contrast study should be performed. Beathard et al112
demonstrated the feasibility of salvage of the early nonmaturing autogenous accesses. Of 63 patients with inadequate
autogenous access development, the access was patent in
74.7% after 1 year by using a systematic approach for
revision that included diagnostic angiography, percutaneous angioplasty, and accessory vein ligation as indicated.112
Most nonfunctional autogenous accesses should therefore
be investigated and the underlying defects corrected, with
reasonable expectation of long term functionality. The
underlying defects are usually one or more of the following:
1. Access too deep. An access can be nonfunctional because it is placed too deep in an extremity such that punc-

Sidawy et al 17S

ture is difficult, inconsistent, or traumatic to the patient and
the conduit. Several approaches can be taken to correct this
problem, depending on the location and access type. When
a prosthetic graft is placed too deep, it may be possible to
divide the graft close to an anastomosis and place it in a new
tunnel. If this is not possible, an entirely new conduit must
be placed.
Because a functioning autogenous access is very valuable, every attempt must be made to move the vein to a
more superficial location. Typically, this involves making an
incision along the entire length of the autogenous or transposed vein and retunneling the vein, often moving the
location of the arteriovenous anastomosis. Retunneling
may shorten the length of the conduit available for puncture. Before emb