on clinical experience, judgment, values, and preferences.
The GRADE system allows us to separate the strength of
our recommendations from the quality of our supporting
data. The authors of this article recognize that the data
from which these guidelines were formulated are imperfect
and that our values played a significant role in guideline
formulation. Furthermore, the huge variability among patients with cerebrovascular disease, both in their anatomic
and physiologic features, makes application of guidelines
problematic. Often patients do not mesh cleanly with the
criteria established for clinical trial eligibility.
We also recognize that the very criteria used to define
patient cohorts are subject to change. For example, we have
used degree of stenosis to define various patient cohorts
throughout. Symptomatic patients with ⬍50% stenosis are
determined to be best served by medical therapy alone,
while those with ⱖ50% stenosis are deemed to require
surgery. Asymptomatic patients with ⱖ60% stenosis are
deemed candidates for endarterectomy, while in those with
⬍60% stenosis, medical therapy is preferred. The severity of
stenosis may not be the best predictor of plaque behavior,
but it is reproducibly quantifiable and currently used as the
measure of disease severity in all clinical trials. We recognize
that in the future these guidelines will be revised if new
methodologies can better predict the clinical behavior of
atherosclerotic plaques.
Consensus eluded the authors in several areas. We could
not completely agree on the role of carotid stenting in asymptomatic patients. We did agree that data supporting stenting in
this setting were of poor quality because of the absence of a
medically managed control group. A majority felt that patients
with acceptable medical risk, high anatomic risk, and compelling carotid pathology should be considered candidates for
stenting. A minority felt that in the absence of trials comparing
medical therapy with stenting in this cohort, such a recommendation, even as GRADE 2 was ill advised.
We also failed to reach consensus over many details in
the technical performance of endarterectomy and stenting.
Originally we had hoped to present technical guidelines using
the GRADE system, but we found both that supporting data
were inconsistent and generally of low quality and that all
recommendations