 of a post-thrombotic limb. This survey demonstrated that guidelines for VLU care are infrequently used by
a select group of academic health care systems in the United
States (20%), but the majority of single-payer systems in
Canada and Europe (82%) employed a VLU guideline. By
contrast, the use of guidelines for the prevention of the postthrombotic limb after deep venous thrombosis (DVT) was
comparable between the United States and other countries.
This low use of VLU guidelines in the United States
occurred despite the availability of guidelines developed by
various societies. This ﬁnding emphasizes the need for both
a comprehensive and a well-promoted guideline for VLUs.
Efﬁcacy of Current Guidelines for Venous Leg
Ulcer. Whereas there are various treatment protocols for
VLUs, they differ in efﬁcacy, quality, and cost. A more

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

uniform method of treatment that has been agreed on by a
panel of experts and based on clinical evidence for efﬁcacy
may improve therapeutic effectiveness and possibly reduce
cost. Several studies have demonstrated that after the institution of a VLU guideline, there were improvements in both
the ulcer healing and recurrence rate and a subsequent
reduced resource use with lowering of treatment costs,
thereby supporting adoption of VLU guidelines.18 Olson
et al demonstrated that ulcer healing rate was markedly
improved in a Veterans Hospital population of 155 patients
with VLU if guideline recommendations were followed.
During a 5-year period, patients who received dressings that
provided a moist wound healing environment and compression for 80% of their visits were more likely to heal than those
who did not comply (<80%; relative risk [RR], 2.52; 95%
conﬁdence interval [CI], 1.53-4.16).19 In a combined study
population of patients from the United Kingdom and the
United States, patients who were treated for VLUs by a
treatment protocol had a 2 times and a 6.5 times greater
likelihood of ulcer healing if the guidelines were followed
(P < .01). Moreover, the median costs were reduced with
adherence to VLU guidelines (P < .0