 and potentially improve the patency of the intracranial intervention. The use
of CAS as an adjunct to intracranial catheter-directed therapies has been evaluated in several case series.239 Although
the results initially reported have been favorable, the overall
experience has been limited.
b. Presentation later than 6 hours. Only about 15% of
acute stroke patients will present within the 6-hour time
window for acute intervention.240 Reasons for delay include failure to recognize symptoms, delay in seeking medical assistance, and a lack of nearby facilities capable of
emergency intervention. As a result, many patients present
outside this therapeutic window. Intervention in these
patients is directed at the carotid bifurcation, not the intracranial circulation, with the goal of preventing recurrent

e20 Ricotta et al

events rather than re-establishing intracranial flow in occluded arteries.
Patients with an acute fixed deficit of more than
6-hours’ duration and a mild or moderate deficit may be
considered for carotid intervention after a period of medical
stabilization. It is generally accepted that intervention is
safely performed early (ⱕ2 weeks) after the event and is
preferable to a delayed (4-6 weeks) intervention.241-244
Advances in radiographic imaging have made possible the
identification of a subset of patients who may benefit from
carotid bifurcation intervention in the setting of acute
stroke.245,246
Urgent CEA may be considered for patients in whom
the distal ICA as well as middle cerebral artery and other
intracranial vessels remain patent, who have limited areas of
infarct (⬍30% of hemispheric volume), with significant
areas of ischemic penumbra at risk for progression of the
infarct, have a mild to moderate neurologic deficit, and are
at risk for recurrent embolization and repeat stroke. Patients should be hemodynamically stable, with mild or
moderate functional deficit, relatively preserved mental status, and a favorable prognosis.247-252 Because these are
symptomatic patients, CEA would be recommended unless
the patients are at high risk for surgery due to medical
morbidity or anatomic features.
There are separate groups of patients