 ﬂow to normal
levels and to identify the etiology of the stroke.
Until proven otherwise, a stroke that occurs immediately after CEA is considered secondary to a technical
defect at the operative site. Other etiologies of stroke in
the immediate postoperative period include embolization, intraoperative watershed infarct and intracranial
hemorrhage. The status of the endarterectomy site
should be determined expeditiously, and in most cases,
this can be done by emergency bedside ultrasound imaging. If thrombosis is conﬁrmed, operative exploration
with repair of defect is urgently indicated. Early reexploration of an occluded CEA site with successful repair may
reduce long-term neurologic sequelae.358 Although
there is no control group available for comparison, reexploration for symptomatic thrombosis has been associated with resolution of neurologic defects in up to
three quarters of patients. Reconstructions include reendarterectomy and patch with extension of the

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

57S

Volume 75, Number 1S

arteriotomy cephalad and caudad, as well as bypass of
the endarterectomized segment with a prosthetic or
vein conduit, especially in cases when platelet aggregates have been seen.
If imaging shows the endarterectomy site is patent
without debris, other etiologies should be considered,
including distal embolization or intracranial hemorrhage. An emergency head CT scan to exclude hemorrhage followed by anticoagulation and angiography
with intracranial intervention according to acute stroke
guidelines is indicated. If capability for acute stroke intervention is not available, then anticoagulation and blood
pressure support is indicated. Meticulous blood pressure
control in the periprocedure period has been identiﬁed
as an important predictor of positive outcomes for all
acute stroke interventions.60
Summary and recommendations for management of
acute neurologic syndrome.
1. Patients who present in less than 6 hours of onset of
stroke should be considered for acute intervention
to reduce the ultimate neurologic deﬁcit. Interventions may include local or systemic thrombolysis
(see Clinical Practice Guidelines).
2. Patients who present with ﬁxed neurologic deﬁcit
greater than 6 hours in duration should be