 stenosis
and guide stent placement after early thrombus removal.
Flexible, large-diameter, self-expanding stents, extending
into the inferior vena cava and common femoral vein if
indicated, are preferred for use in the iliac veins. In contrast
to the favorable results with iliac stents, stents placed in the
femoropopliteal venous segment fare poorly,16 and we
suggest that stents not be used in the femoropopliteal
segment (Grade 2C).
6. Early thrombus removal strategies as an adjuvant
to conventional management
6.1. We recommend that patients managed with
early thrombus removal be treated with a standard
course of conventional anticoagulation after the procedure (Grade 1A). Strategies of early thrombus removal
should be considered an adjunct rather than an alternative
to conventional anticoagulation for acute iliofemoral DVT.
Successful thrombus removal should be followed by a
standard course of anticoagulation with unfractionated or
low-molecular-weight heparin, followed by oral anticoagulants administered for a duration guided by the patient’s
underlying risk factors. Evidence-based guidelines for the
anticoagulant treatment of acute DVT are regularly updated by the ACCP.24 With anticoagulation, cumulative
rates of freedom from recurrent DVT after thrombolytic
treatment have been reported to be 85%, 83%, and 83% at
6, 12, and 24 months.69 Although the duration of anticoagulation is generally determined by underlying thrombotic risk factors, the optimal duration of anticoagulation
after the placement of venous stents in the setting of early
thrombus removal has not been adequately studied, and no
evidence-based recommendations can be provided. Factors
associated with stent thrombosis have included thrombophilia and evidence of extrinsic compression.92
6.2. We recommend that all patients be treated
with knee-high compression stockings (30 to 40 mm
Hg) for at least 2 years after the procedure (Grade
1C). The role of compression stockings in the management of chronic venous disorders has been well established.93 Compression stockings improve calf muscle pump
function, reduce