 routine carotid screening.55-59 The highest incidence is generally observed 15
years after radiotherapy exposure, with 21.3% and 5.3%
rates of ipsilateral and contralateral stenosis, respectively.
The data also suggest that the ipsilateral common carotid
(CCA) and internal carotid arteries (ICA) are both in-

Ricotta et al e5

volved. The rate of contralateral carotid artery stenosis may
also be higher than that observed in the general population.
Unfortunately, limited data are available regarding carotid screening after radiotherapy among patients with
head and neck cancer. However, the distribution of disease
and clinical course in patients after radiation for head and
neck malignancy is different from that of the typical atherosclerotic population. There is a higher incidence of diffuse
disease, often involving the CCA, and many of these patients remain neurologically asymptomatic. Further, CEA
in this group is considered relatively “high risk,” and prior
radiotherapy is a relative indication for CAS rather than
CEA. There are no robust data on the long-term results of
CAS in asymptomatic stenosis associated with prior radiotherapy. Therefore, issues other than the increased prevalence of disease must be considered in formulating recommendations concerning screening in this group of patients.
Brain imaging will occasionally identify patients who
have evidence of focal cerebral infarction despite the absence of any history of neurologic symptoms and a normal
result on the neurologic examination. These infarcts can
vary in size and are often found in the frontal lobes or the
nondominant temporal lobe. They may occur as small
symmetric lacunar infarcts, implying small-vessel disease, or
they may also be asymmetric, which tends to implicate
ipsilateral carotid stenosis. These can be secondary to blood
flow changes distal to carotid occlusion, which may increase
the risk of lacunar infarcts in those with small vessel disease.
However, Kakkos et al60 reported a higher stroke rate of
4.4% vs 1.3% in patients with 60% to 79% clinically asymptomatic stenosis if a silent infarct was present. Carotid
screening is recommended in patients with asympt