al limb and toe pressures and ankle-brachial
indices. Once the initial assessment is completed, the
guidelines endorse the Society for Vascular Surgery
Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation system that is based on
grading of Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI); it
provides the most accurate staging of CLTI.5
Second, we learned that all patients with CLTI should
receive best medical therapy, including antithrombotic,
lipid-lowering, antihypertensive and glycemic control
medications, preventive foot care and counseling on
smoking cessation, a low-fat and low-sodium diet, and
appropriate exercise.
Third, we learned that Evidence-Based Revascularization (EBR) depends on Patient risk, Limb severity, and
ANatomic complexity (PLAN). The proposed new Global
Anatomic Staging System (GLASS) replaces previously
used classiﬁcations; it deﬁnes a preferred target artery
path (TAP), estimates limb-based patency (LBP), and
establishes stages of complexity for interventions. GLASS
is used to determine the likelihood of limb salvage and
the best route to achieve it.
Fourth, we learned that access to perform both invasive
treatments, endovascular procedures and open surgery,
is required to appropriately treat these patients. The old
adage “when your only tool is a hammer, the whole
world looks like a nail” certainly applies to the management of CLTI. Considering only one approach may
reduce the likelihood of successful treatment and it
may even expose patients to ineffective or inappropriately invasive procedures. Having an autogenous saphenous vein available favors surgical bypass in advanced
CLTI, while endovascular interventions are preferred
for high-risk patients with less complex anatomy.
1S

2S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Lawrence and Gloviczki

June Supplement 2019

Long-term limb surveillance after any revascularization is
strongly recommended.
Fifth, the guidelines address the current lack of
evidence supporting nonrevascularization therapies,
including cell-based and gene therapies, spinal cord
stimulation, pneumatic compression, prostanoids, and
hyperbaric oxygen treatment.
Finally, since most patients with CLTI have tissue loss,
either from an ischemic ulcer or gangrene, many
