GERY
March Supplement 2015

6S Conte and Pomposelli et al

summarized in Table I. By studying the characteristics
associated with each condition listed in Table I, it is clear
that most alternative diagnoses can be conﬁrmed or
excluded by a thorough history and physical examination.
Careful characterization of the speciﬁc pattern of symptoms, with special attention to the factors that provoke,
exacerbate, and relieve the symptoms, can almost always
result in an accurate diagnosis.
Perhaps worthy of special mention is the differentiation
of neurogenic claudication from vasculogenic claudication,
because this is the most common clinical diagnostic challenge. In contrast to vasculogenic claudication, neurogenic
claudication most often occurs secondary to nerve root
compression on exit from the spinal canal. These symptoms
may often include lower extremity pain that is radiating in
nature, starting at the hips or buttocks and extending down
the affected leg. In addition, radicular pain is frequently
brought on by simple weight bearing or changes in posture
(eg, rising after prolonged sitting) and relieved by a change
in position to relieve the load on the spine (eg, lumbar
ﬂexion, sitting down). These features are in distinct
contrast to vasculogenic claudication, which is induced by
leg exercise and quickly relieved by rest (resulting in a
decrease in muscular metabolic requirement), without a
need to change position.
As mentioned, the cornerstone of the patient assessment for IC consists of a complete history and physical examination. Qualitative assessment of the extremity for signs
of PAD includes the presence of weak or absent distal
pulses, the absence of distal hair growth, evidence of dry
skin secondary to apocrine gland dysfunction, and in the
case of advanced PAD, nonhealing areas of skin breakdown. Quantitative assessment includes noninvasive
vascular testing, of which the cornerstone is the measurement of the ABI. If the ABI is $1.4 secondary to

noncompressibility of the arteries from calciﬁcation, a
toe-brachial index is a useful alternative because the digital
arteries are frequently not calciﬁed. A toe-brachial index
value of #0.7 is indicative of hemodynamically signiﬁcant
arterial insufﬁciency.38 Although not