 higher chance of
rupture, small visceral aneurysms can rupture as well.
There is no ﬁrm evidence that calciﬁcation in a visceral
artery aneurysm protects against a risk of rupture.
When it occurs, rupture of visceral artery aneurysms
can occur into the peritoneal cavity, retroperitoneal
space, gastrointestinal tract, or biliary tract. Free
rupture into the peritoneal cavity resulting in hemoperitoneum is often termed abdominal apoplexy.
Rupture of visceral artery aneurysms may also be
manifested with life-threatening gastrointestinal hemorrhage as well.
Although not directed by randomized prospective
trials, general principles of management of visceral artery aneurysms do exist. Because of their potential for
rupture, most visceral artery pseudoaneurysms,
mycotic aneurysms, and many larger true aneurysms
warrant intervention. Treatment can generally be
accomplished by either open surgical or endovascular
approaches. The treatment goal is to prevent aneurysm expansion and potential rupture by exclusion
from the arterial circulation while maintaining necessary distal or collateral bed perfusion. Depending on
the location of the aneurysm, this can be accomplished in a variety of ways. In areas of the visceral
circulation with an abundance of collateral ﬂow, for
example, in the splenic artery, proximal and distal
ligation of the aneurysm segment is a viable surgical
option. This can also be accomplished with endovascular isolation of the aneurysmal segment, either by

placement of a stent graft or by coil embolization
of the proximal and distal arterial segment. The
preferred treatment of an individual patient and
aneurysm must be carefully based on the particular
anatomy and any associated clinical conditions as
well as the underlying condition of the patient. The
purpose of these guidelines is to inform the diagnosis, treatment options, screening, and follow-up of
visceral aneurysms based on the available published
literature and the Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE)
approach.5

METHODS
Guideline framework. The committee used the
GRADE approach to rate the quality of evidence (conﬁdence in the estimates) and to grade the strength of
recommend