Table II. Intersocietal Accreditation Committee guidelines for supervised interpreted studies
Peripheral arterial physiologic test, 100
Peripheral arterial duplex scanning, 100
d Peripheral venous duplex scanning, 100
d Carotid duplex scanning, 100
d Transcranial duplex/Doppler scanning, 100
d Visceral vascular duplex scanning, 75
d
d

other mandatory component of the noninvasive vascular
laboratory experience that other specialties may not
provide. After completing training, the practicing vascular
surgeon who wishes to interpret these studies must provide evidence of continuing medical education (CME)
activity speciﬁc to noninvasive vascular diagnostic studies.
As of 2014, initial board certiﬁcation in vascular surgery by
the Vascular Surgery Board of the ABS is predicated on
successfully passing the RPVI examination.
As of June 2016, the Alliance for Physician Certiﬁcation
and Advancement (APCA) certiﬁes a physician to be an
RPVI (previously administered by the American Registry
of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers). The RPVI examination has speciﬁc prerequisites that must be completed
before the vascular board examinations are taken. Successful passing of the RPVI examination ensures expertise in the interpretation of vascular laboratory studies
among current vascular surgery trainees. An exception
would be those individuals who successfully passed the
Registered Vascular Technology examination before the
creation of the RPVI examination.

TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW VASCULAR
PROCEDURES
Vascular surgeons are expected to acquire proﬁciency
in new and evolving open and endovascular procedures.
As new procedures are introduced, it is important that
practitioners be properly credentialed to ensure excellent outcomes and patient safety, which should include
evidence of participation in CME courses relevant to
the topic. On- or off-site mentoring may be required,
depending on the complexity of the new procedure
and experience of the operator, and will need to be
determined on a case-by-case basis. Physicians already
trained and credentialed in endovascular interventions
can use many new and modiﬁed devices, however,
without additional special certiﬁcation. Proctoring for
certain new procedures may be desirable (http://www.
sts.org