 surgery residency at the same institution
and enables the trainees to obtain ABS certiﬁcation
in both general surgery and vascular surgery. Only
three programs currently offer an early specialization
pathway. Trainees must complete a minimum of
850 total operative procedures and 250 major
vascular reconstructions during these 6 years.

The ABS requires that all training programs in vascular
surgery must be accredited by the ACGME through the
Residency Review Committee for Surgery (RRC-S). The
purpose of the RRC-S is to ensure that programs
provide a broad and comprehensive exposure to the
ﬁeld of vascular surgery and meet other educational,
administrative, and ethical requirements. Of note, an independent RRC for vascular surgery does not currently
exist; however, three vascular surgeons sit on the RRC-S
at all times.3 All vascular training programs reviewed by
the RRC-S will be reviewed by at least one vascular
surgeon.
On completion of any of these training programs, the
ABS allows a period of up to 7 years for trainees to
achieve initial board certiﬁcation in vascular surgery, during which time the candidate is considered board
eligible. To achieve initial vascular surgery board certiﬁcation, the physician must successfully complete clinical
training in vascular surgery through one of the three previously listed pathways, obtain a letter of attestation from
the training program director, obtain an unrestricted
state medical license to practice, successfully pass the
Registered Physician in Vascular Interpretation (RPVI)
examination before sitting for the certifying examination,
and pass the written (qualifying) and oral (certifying) examinations administered by the Vascular Surgery Board
of the ABS. The SVS emphasizes that graduates from
general surgery or cardiothoracic surgery residencies
are not eligible for ABS vascular surgery board certiﬁcation unless they have completed an ACGME-accredited
vascular surgery residency. It is the position of the SVS
that exposure to the ﬁeld of vascular surgery during
these other residencies is not sufﬁcient to acquire the
experience and judgment necessary for the independent
practice of vascular surgery.
After initial board certiﬁcation is achieved in vascular
surgery, the ABS requires physician participation in a
program for MOC, which continuously measures the
six core competencies deﬁned by the ACGME to
enhance patient