 longterm data describing their outcomes over time are available. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Carotid-axillary access. Use of the carotid and axillary
arteries to deliver and to deploy thoracic stent grafts
has been described,198 but these cases have been
reserved for extreme situations in which access cannot
be obtained from the lower extremities because of iliac
or distal aortic occlusion. An approach to the DTA from
the arch vessels means that the stent graft will be
deployed in an inverted fashion (unless predeployed and
reinserted into the sheath, which would be an off-label
use of the device) and may be associated with an
increased risk of neurologic complications due to the
wires and sheaths crossing the arch of the aorta.
More commonly, the brachial or axillary arteries are
used to facilitate access from below by the so-called
body ﬂoss technique with a brachiofemoral or axillofemoral wire, in which a wire is passed from the right
brachial or axillary artery and brought out the ipsilateral
groin, typically by snaring the wire. With tension on
both ends, this technique can allow delivery of a stiff device through a tortuous and otherwise impassable aorta.
Care should be taken not to injure the origins of the brachiocephalic vessels with the stiff wire passing through
them. A long sheath (typically 5F or 6F) should be used
to protect these vessels, and it can be used to cover the
tip of the delivery system on the stent graft and to facilitate delivery using a “push-pull” technique.
Practice Statement: Brachiocephalic access for TEVAR
device delivery may be acceptable in situations in which
transfemoral or iliac access is not available. However,
more data are required to determine whether carotidaxillary artery access for delivery of a thoracic endograft
is associated with increased complications. (Ungraded
good practice statement)
Recommendations for treatment of symptomatic and
ruptured TAAs
Early mortality after open repair of ruptured DTA is high
as evidenced by a Swedish study from the preendovascular era that reported an in-hospital mortality
appro