 responsible primary
care physician or gastroenterologist, before referral to
the vascular specialist. In practice, many of the patients
have completed their extensive evaluation and are
referred to the specialist with a tentative diagnosis of
CMI. Regardless of the explanations for the diagnostic

delay, an expeditious diagnosis can lead to timely treatment and avoid the sequelae of CMI, as well as the nutritional deﬁciencies that may affect the perioperative
course.
Although patients with CMI present with abdominal
pain and weight loss, the differential diagnosis for this
presentation is quite extensive, with gastrointestinal malignancy being foremost among the potential causes.
Unfortunately, there are no speciﬁc physical examination
ﬁndings or laboratory studies to aid in the diagnosis.
Endoscopy is an integral part of the diagnostic algorithm
for abdominal pain and weight loss and, therefore, is
often completed before considering CMI in the differential. Both esophagogastroduodenoscopy and a colonoscopy should likely be performed as a part of the
diagnostic workup to exclude a malignancy, unless the
diagnosis of CMI is clear. Although the ﬁndings of
ischemic gastritis, duodenitis, and colitis are somewhat
nonspeciﬁc, they can be suggestive of CMI.38,39 Notably,
the presence of a gastric ulcer in the absence of a malignancy is highly suggestive of CMI.40-42 A variety of adjunct
functional studies have been described to aid in the
diagnosis of CMI, including oxygen light spectroscopy43,44 and intestinal tonometry,45 although their collective experience is limited and they have not
achieved clinical usefulness. It is conceivable that the
widespread availability of CT imaging may help to identify the culprit mesenteric stenoses sooner and expedite
the diagnosis of CMI when compared with historic series
when catheter-based arteriography was the primary
diagnostic imaging modality.
Because there is no reliable functional test for the diagnosis of CMI, the diagnosis must rely on the appropriate
clinical scenario and the presence of MAOD. Harki et al46
have attempted to develop a predictive model based on
the clinical presentation and anatomic ﬁndings to increase the diagnostic accuracy. They identiﬁed female
sex, weight loss, presence of cardiovascular disease,