 þ warfarin

B-C (rated down due to
imprecision and
indirectness)

B-C (rated down due to
imprecision and
indirectness)

ASA, Acetylsalicylic acid; CI, conﬁdence interval; CLI, critical limb ischemia; EVT, endovascular therapy; IC, intermittent
claudication; LMWH, low-molecular-weight heparin; OR, odds ratio; PAD, peripheral arterial disease; RCT, randomized
controlled trial.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

within the graft or at the anastomoses thought to threaten
graft patency, regardless of clinical presentation.
There is an extensive body of literature on the use DUS
of lower extremity vein grafts performed for CLI. Most
studies are retrospective analyses of single-institution case
series. Prospective studies have also focused on patients
with CLI and not claudication. Patients undergoing surgical
bypass for claudication are generally healthier and more
active than those treated for CLI and are theoretically
more ambulatory and more apt to report recurrence of
symptoms earlier than a minimally ambulatory, debilitated
patient treated for CLI. Grafts placed for claudication usually extend to the popliteal artery, rarely more distally, and
have superior patency compared with vein grafts placed for
CLI. It is therefore not clear whether data derived for
vascular laboratory-based DUS programs in patients treated
for CLI are applicable or even necessary for patients treated
for claudication.
The Vein Graft Surveillance Randomized Trial (VGST)
was a prospective study in the United Kingdom that randomized 594 patients with patent vein grafts 30 days after surgery246
to clinical surveillance or DUS in addition to clinical surveillance. Most the operations were from the CFA to the aboveknee or below-knee popliteal artery, and the conduits were
ipsilateral reversed saphenous vein in >90% of the procedures.
Anastomotic sites and conduits largely mimicked those most
used in vein grafts performed for claudication, even though
two-thirds of the procedures in VGST were for CLI. A comparison of the two surveillance strategies at 18 months found no
differences in primary, primary assisted