 endovascular repair of
traumatic thoracic aortic injuries. Despite the focal nature of
these aortic injuries, which may appear to favor endograft
repair, there remains a number of unresolved issues: (1)
poor conformation to the arch, (2) frequent need to cover
the left subclavian artery (LSA), (3) uncertain natural history of the repair given the younger age of trauma victims
and the morphologic changes of the aorta that come with
age, (4) optimal follow-up strategy that may span several
decades and the risks of cumulative radiation exposure, (5)
timing of repair, and (6) the need for intraoperative anticoagulation in the setting of polytrauma.
The Society for Vascular Surgery® (SVS) identified several
key issues that require the development of clinical practice
guidelines to aid surgeons, referring physicians, and patients in
the process of decision making. Endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injuries was one of these areas. In developing these guidelines, the Society utilized similar processes
and formats to their recently published guidelines.8 First, the
Society selected a committee of experts in the field who
possess knowledge of the clinical aspects as well as patients’
values and preferences in this regard. Second, they commissioned the Knowledge and Encounter Research Unit, Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, a third party with expertise in evidencebased medicine, knowledge synthesis, and guideline development to conduct a comprehensive systematic review of
the literature and identify the best available evidence. The
Society acknowledged the value of systematic reviews and
meta-analyses since, compared with individual studies, they
provide evidence that is more robust and more likely to be
applicable to a wider range of patients. Third, the Society
utilized the Grading of Recommendations Assessment,
Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methods to develop and present their recommendations. The GRADE
method provides superior clarity and separates the quality
of evidence from the strength of recommendations. It also
allows for the inclusion of patients’ values and preferences
in recommendations8 (Table I).
In this article, the committee presents the following
recommendation with the aim of clarifying the role of
TEVAR in the treatment of traumatic blunt aortic injuries.
While there was diversity of individual opinions, the article

reflects the consensus of the committee. The recommendation is followed by the supporting evidence,