 the degree of walking impairment by self-reported
symptoms or objective testing.123,124 Similarly the burden of
disease by anatomic imaging correlates poorly with function
in everyday life. This may relate to nonvascular causes of

walking impairment, the adaptation of each individual to the
disability, and the variable contributions of collaterals. Justiﬁcation for interventions for IC is not based primarily on physiologic (eg, ABI) measures or on anatomic ﬁndings but rather
on the severity of functional impairment speciﬁc to arterial
insufﬁciency and its perceived effect on QoL, supported by
objective evidence of signiﬁcant disease. Promoting intervention in an individual with mild disability based on physiologic
or imaging studies is strongly discouraged.
Determining the degree of functional impairment from IC
is not straightforward and varies from patient to patient.125
This should be assessed from the patient’s perspective and
not based on the biases or value judgments of the physician.
A patient’s perception of the degree of impairment may vary
according to his or her baseline level of physical activity; that
is, moderate claudication may be perceived as severely
disabling in a very active patient, whereas more severe claudication may be well tolerated in a more sedentary individual. IC
causing loss of the ability to perform an occupation or that impairs basic activities of daily living and/or mobility often justiﬁes invasive treatment. Equally important are QoL issues
such as the need to provide care to a spouse or family member
or loss of the ability to engage in recreational or social activities.
On the other hand, loss of ambulatory function may be
multifactorial when arthritis of weight-bearing joints or the
lumbar spine is also present. Treatment of PAD alone may
not result in improved ambulatory function in patients so
afﬂicted. Similarly, the treatment of IC may provide no beneﬁt
to patients with signiﬁcant ischemic or structural heart disease,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, morbid obesity, stroke,
etc. In addition, such patients present a greater risk of complications or death, potentially outweighing the beneﬁt of treatment, especially when surgery is required.
Numerous studies have demonstrated the efﬁcacy of
both endovascular and surgical therapy for the relief of
symptoms of cl