loic arteries).8
A methodology group independently selected and
appraised studies and subsequently collaborated with
the committee to integrate evidence into recommendations. The Committee provided additional references
and monitored the literature for new evidence emerging
after the original search.

RENAL ARTERY ANEURYSM (RAA)

obtained for unrelated reasons. In a multicenter study,
CTA (58%) was the most commonly used modality for
the diagnosis and evaluation of RAAs, followed by noncontrast-enhanced CT (24%), MRA (6%), catheter angiography (5%), and ultrasound (4%).14 CTA with multiplanar,
maximal intensity projection reconstruction, volume
rendering, and three-dimensional reconstructions better
assess the arterial anatomic details of the renal arteries at
all branch levels, including intrapelvic and intraparenchymal locations.15-17 Thickness sections of 1 mm, if available,
should be favored for better anatomic deﬁnition.
Furthermore, the three-dimensional reconstructions
may give a better representation of the number and relation of all involved branches compared with twodimensional catheter angiography or ultrasound.
In certain patients, compromised renal function puts
them at increased risk of contrast-induced nephropathy.
In an effort to avoid the nephrotoxic effects of iodinated
contrast agents, non-contrast-enhanced MRA has been
used to assess the renal arteries. MRA can be performed
with a “breath-hold” steady-state free precession
sequence or time-spatial labeling inversion pulse technique. Studies evaluating steady-state free precession sequences have shown excellent concordance as well as
interobserver agreement with contrast-enhanced
MRA.18,19 Furthermore, time-spatial labeling inversion
pulse non-contrast-enhanced MRA has also shown
promise compared with contrast-enhanced CTA with
74% sensitivity, 93% speciﬁcity, and 90% accuracy.20
Whereas contrast-enhanced ultrasound has been used

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of RAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

In patients who are thought to have RAA, we recommend CTA as the diagnostic
tool of choice, with 1-mm-thickness sections if available.

1 (Strong)

B