 small trial by Sarac et al,238 56 patients undergoing
high-risk vein bypass (deﬁned as poor-quality conduit or
runoff) were randomized to ASA plus warfarin vs ASA
alone. The patients receiving ASA plus warfarin had a
signiﬁcantly improved patency and limb salvage at 3 years.
The ischemic consequences of graft thrombosis may be
ameliorated by the use of anticoagulants after bypass surgery, especially when using prosthetic grafts. A multicenter
prospective, randomized trial of 402 patients undergoing
FP bypass with PTFE or saphenous vein and treated with
ASA plus warfarin or ASA alone found graft thrombosis
more commonly resulted in limb-threatening ischemia in
prosthetic grafts than in vein grafts. However, patients
with prosthetic graft thrombosis were less likely to present
with acute limb ischemia if they were receiving warfarin.239
In summary, available clinical evidence does not
conclusively support the use of antiplatelet agents to
improve lower extremity vein bypass graft patency,
although their use is still warranted to reduce future cardiovascular ischemic events and stroke. Patency may be
improved with antiplatelet therapy in patients undergoing
prosthetic bypass. The use of warfarin anticoagulation after
lower extremity bypass remains controversial, and signiﬁcant differences exist in its use between North American
and European vascular surgeons. In the United States, anticoagulation is used selectively in vein bypass procedures
with either suboptimal conduit or compromised runoff.
Warfarin in addition to ASA is used in many patients
receiving prosthetic grafts to reduce the ischemic consequences of bypass graft thrombosis. However, caution is
warranted given the incremental bleeding risks associated
with combination therapy, and existing evidence is inadequate to support a deﬁnitive recommendation at this time.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 29S

Recommendations: Postinterventional medical therapy in intermittent claudication (IC)

5.24.

5.25.
5.26.

In all patients after endovascular or open surgical intervention for claudication, we recommend