 vascular phenotype.183
Conservative management of younger patients with AIOD
is advocated because the initiation of surgical or endovascular
interventions at a premature age can lead to accelerated progression toward a more critical stage of disease. Furthermore,
recent data from clinical trials74 support the role of exercise

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

therapy as an initial strategy for claudicant patients with inﬂow
disease, and this should be advocated as a primary treatment
strategy, particularly in the younger patient.
Extra-anatomic reconstruction for AIOD. For patients with extensive patterns of AIOD who are deemed to
be at high risk or technical complexity for direct surgical reconstructions, particularly those with advanced ischemic symptoms, extra-anatomic bypass grafts offer a suitable alternative.
In general, extra-anatomic bypass grafts are not considered as a
ﬁrst-line approach for patients with IC because their long-term
durability and hemodynamic effect are inferior to in-line reconstructions. Their use in patients with claudication should
be limited to special circumstances such as graft or stent
complications, hostile abdomen, or other factors precluding an
endovascular or in-line surgical approach.
Key considerations in selecting an extra-anatomic strategy include whether the AIOD is unilateral or bilateral
(and if bilateral, can unilateral inﬂow be corrected by suitable
endovascular means), nature of prior interventions, and the
status of the contralateral groin. FFB grafting can be readily
done under regional or even local anesthesia with sedation,
offering an important potential advantage. AxFB is challenging to perform under anything but a general anesthetic.
Angiographic imaging (CTA or catheter based) is recommended before performing extra-anatomic bypass grafting to fully evaluate the inﬂow and outﬂow anatomy. Direct
angiography is mandatory for FFB if there is any suggestion
of disease in the donor iliofemoral system by pulse examination, hemodynamic assessments, or axial imaging. Formal
evaluation of the aortic arch vessels is not generally required
for AxFB unless there is a discrepancy in brachial pressures
or another reason to suspect brachiocephalic disease.
For FFB, the donor iliac system must be free of hemodynamically signiﬁcant disease, or such diseasedif present and
of a localized natured