upon by the Writing Committee members. Subsequently,
the PICOs were created and voted on for inclusion by
Writing Committee members. The PICOs to be included
were then reviewed by the external experts, patient representatives, and the guideline committee of the societies
involved. The systematic reviews of the literature to address
the clinical questions were performed according to the
preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and
meta-analyses (PRISMA) guideline.4 The process of identifying and evaluating the available evidence, with its main
conclusions, resulted in three systematic reviews on

1106

Fitridge et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
November 2023

Diagnosis, on Prognosis, and on Management of Peripheral
Arterial Disease in Diabetes Mellitus. These systematic reviews are published separately (https://doi.org/10.1002/
dmrr.3683, https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3701, https://doi.
org/10.1002/dmrr.3700).5-7 The population of interest was
people with diabetes mellitus (with or without a foot ulcer
or gangrene, depending on the clinical question). For diagnosis, the intervention was any non-invasive bedside test
and the comparator an objective imaging study; for prognosis the intervention was any non-invasive bedside test
and for treatment the interventions were bypass (open)
and direct revascularisation and the comparators endovascular and indirect revascularisation, respectively. The primary outcomes were wound healing, minor and major
amputation and adverse events, limb salvage, and wound
healing. After the literature search all abstracts and subsequently selected articles were reviewed by two authors, as
described in the systematic reviews. Included studies had
at least 80% of participants with diabetes or in which the results of the participants with diabetes were reported separately. All included studies were assessed for quality and risk
of bias with the following instruments, depending on the
type of study: Quality in Prognosis Studies, the revised quality appraisal tool for studies of diagnostic reliability,
ROBINS-I (for assessing risk of bias in non-randomised
studies of interventions), the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (for
non-randomised studies, including observational and
cohort studies where details regarding allocation to intervention