 Guidelines
document.3
Stroke in evolution. Stroke in evolution is a clinical syndrome that has been characterized as an evolving neurologic condition associated with an acute precipitating
neurologic event. In these situations, initial medical management of stroke including antiplatelet therapy, volume
support and blood pressure management has not succeeded in stabilizing the patient’s neurologic outcome,
which may wax and wane over the early course of the
presentation. Patients may never return to normal and
their neurologic deﬁcit will be mild to moderate in nature. Often, there has been a permanent area of infarction, but the remaining ischemic penumbra is
signiﬁcant and attention is directed at salvaging this
ischemic area as rapidly as possible.
Expeditious clinical evaluation, brain imaging, and
rapid evaluation of the carotid bifurcation is important
to optimize result. Brain imaging, most often by
diffusion-weighted MRI, allows rapid assessment of the
amount of brain infarcted and the amount at risk. After
brain imaging to exclude hemorrhage as an etiology
and to identify ischemic but viable brain, carotid imaging
by duplex ultrasound examination, CTA, or MRI should
be used to identify the offending lesion at the carotid
bifurcation. If other etiologies are excluded, urgent CEA
is warranted. In general, patients with preocclusive ICA
stenosis or carotid occlusion are considered for emergency intervention, whereas those with less severe stenosis are initially medically optimized with urgent, but not
emergent, intervention, planned during the admission.344-349
The presumption is that optimizing hemispheric blood
ﬂow will improve perfusion in the ischemic hemisphere
and decrease the ultimate extent of the neurologic
deﬁcit. This must be balanced by concern that restoring
blood ﬂow may result in hemorrhagic conversion of an
infarct or reperfusion injury.
There are no large series of patients treated in standard
manner from which to draw deﬁnitive conclusions
regarding optimal therapy in patients where

56S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

hemorrhage has been excluded by brain imaging. Some
surgeons use a heparin infusion to try to