 lack of blinding, lack of
randomization, lack of data addressing compression
strengths, and inconsistent outcomes. However, taken
together, they suggest that postoperative pain in the ﬁrst
7 days after saphenous surgery or thermal ablation can
be reduced with the use of higher compression modalities and eccentric compression.

2. SHORT-TERM COMPRESSION (<2 WEEKS) VS
LONGER TERM COMPRESSION AFTER THERMAL
ABLATION
Guideline 2.1: Duration of compression therapy after
thermal ablation or stripping of the saphenous veins.
In the absence of convincing evidence, we recommend best
clinical judgment to determine the duration of
compression therapy after treatment. [BEST PRACTICE]

A total of eight relevant publications were identiﬁed21,22,25-27,30-32; one was a guideline,21 four were
RCTs,22,25-27 and three were nonrandomized observational studies.30-35 None of the included studies was sufﬁciently powered or appropriately designed to deﬁnitively

22

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

address the question of optimal duration of compression
therapy. Included studies were heterogeneous in regard
to timing for measured outcomes, modality of vein
ablation, and modality and dose of compression.
One study compared 4 hours of leg compression with
72 hours of leg compression after radiofrequency
ablation of the GSV.22 This trial of 101 patients excluded
Clinical, Etiologic, Anatomic, and Pathophysiologic
(CEAP) C5 and C6 disease, bilateral radiofrequency ablation, small saphenous vein ablation, and preoperative
noncompliance to compressive therapy. The study
demonstrated that patients with the shorter duration
of compression had a greater reduction in leg volume
and experienced a lower number of complications.
Postoperative pain and time to full recovery did not differ
between the groups. The study concluded that wearing
compression stockings for a shorter time was not inferior
to compression for a longer time. It was not reported in
this study how many (if any) patients had underlying
deep venous insufﬁciency.
