ous leg ulcers receive thorough débridement at their initial evaluation to remove
obvious necrotic tissue, excessive bacterial burden, and
cellular burden of dead and senescent cells. [GRADE 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest that additional maintenance débridement be performed to
maintain the appearance and readiness of the wound
bed for healing. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE B] We suggest that the health care provider choose
from a number of débridement methods, including
sharp, enzymatic, mechanical, biologic, and autolytic.
More than one débridement method may be appropriate. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Although protocols for management of VLUs usually
recommend wound débridement to remove nonviable tissue
and to reduce bacterial burden, there is a lack of robust evidence that routine wound débridement accelerates wound
healing. Williams et al prospectively studied 28 patients
who underwent débridement for the presence of slough
and nonviable tissue in the VLU bed compared with 27
patients who also had little granulation tissue but no slough
and did not receive débridement.221 Patients treated with
débridement had a signiﬁcantly higher wound size reduction

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

4 weeks after débridement than those who did not. This difference was maintained 20 weeks after débridement. Cardinal
et al reviewed the relationship of débridement to ulcer healing in two prospective RCTs of topical wound treatments on
366 VLUs and 310 diabetic foot ulcers.222 VLUs treated at a
clinic visit with débridement had a signiﬁcantly higher median wound surface area reduction in the week after débridement than did those for which débridement was not
performed. However, débridement frequency per patient
did not statistically correlate to rates of wound closure.
Recommendations to débride nonviable or necrotic tissue from the wound bed are supported by established principles of management of all wounds.223,224 However, the
frequency and method of débridement are not well studied
and have not been well established as related to the incidence of wound closure.