 procedure had to be downgraded to C (low to very
low), because the meta-analysis by Aherne et al214
included 12 nonrandomized studies with the intrinsic
associated bias. A subanalysis of three RCTs showed no
difference in reinterventions between the groups. In
addition, 63.9% of the patients with planned staged
intervention never had a second procedure. The study
counted the second operation of a staged procedure “reinterventions” and the percent of reinterventions after
the staged procedures was not investigated. In one of
the RCTs,152 the need for staged treatment of varicose
tributaries was only 17% in those patients who underwent extended EVLA for axial, below-knee saphenous
incompetence.
9. Management of recurrent varicosities
9.1.1. For patients with symptomatic recurrent varicosities, clinical evaluation and DUS should be performed before treatment to determine the potential
source of recurrence.
Consensus statement.
Rationale. Mandatory follow-up for C2 patients for
several years post intervention is costly and not indicated.
Patients who present with recurrent symptoms are

Table XXV. Top 20 topics for future research on varicose
veins
N.

Topic of research

1.

Comparative studies of polidocanol endovenous
microfoam vs physician compounded foam for
treatment of varicose tributaries.

2.

Comparative studies of polidocanol endovenous
microfoam vs other techniques of thermal and
nonthermal ablations of incompetent superﬁcial truncal
veins.

3.

Best metric of axial reﬂux to determine ablation of
superﬁcial truncal veins: vein diameter, reﬂux time, reﬂux
volume or combination of these metrics.

4.

Longitudinal studies to identify risk factors for
progression of C2 to C4 disease.

5.

Comparative studies of thermal vs nonthermal ablations.

6.

Studies to identify patients who need periprocedural
thrombosis prophylaxis and deﬁne optimal drugs
(LMWH, DOACs), dose, and duration of prophylaxis.

7.

Cost and QOL comparisons between staged vs
concomitant phlebectomy after saphenous ablation