after EVLA (P ⫽ .511). Similar results were reported by the

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May Supplement 2011

same authors in patients who underwent open surgery or
EVLA for recurrent varicose veins of the SSV.230 These
nonrandomized studies provide only low-quality evidence
that EVLA, when possible to perform, results in lower
complication rates and better socioeconomic outcome in
patients with recurrent varicose veins than open surgery.
Creton and Uhl227 treated 129 limbs with recurrent
varicose veins using foam sclerotherapy with 1% polidocanol combined with surgical treatment. All patients had
phlebectomies, and 20 had repeat ligation of the saphenous
stumps. Foam sclerotherapy combined with surgery resulted in 93% closure of the saphenous stumps and no
recurrent varicose veins. Two patients had asymptomatic
DVT. Another study, by O’Hare et al,231 found no difference in occlusion rate of primary and recurrent varicose
veins (75% vs 72%) at 6 months when treated with ultrasonographically guided foam sclerotherapy.
Endovenous thermal ablations
Endovenous thermal ablation of the saphenous veins is
a relatively new, minimally invasive percutaneous procedure with several advantages over standard open surgery.232 It requires local tumescent anesthesia and is an
outpatient procedure that can be performed in an office
setting. The procedure is done under ultrasonographic
guidance using percutaneous catheter placement; patients
complain less of pain and discomfort and return to work
earlier than after open surgical procedures. Endovenous
thermal ablation includes EVLA and RFA (Table VI). A
third technique that recently emerged includes the use of
superheated steam, which destroys the endothelial layer
and causes shrinkage of the collagen.233 Early clinical application, as reported by Milleret et al,233 is promising, but
available data are not sufficient to include this technique in
our report in more detail. EVLA and RFA are similar
techniques in many ways, so a discussion of concepts and
data applying to both of these procedures