 occlusive disease is present at the carotid bifurcation. Currently, the NASCET
method is more widely used and accepted.52 CTA has
been shown to be a reliable substitute to formal arteriography in this regard.53
Summary and recommendations
(See also Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3)
1. Duplex ultrasound examination preferably performed
in an accredited vascular laboratory is the initial diagnostic imaging of choice for evaluating the severity of
carotid stenosis in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Unequivocal identiﬁcation by duplex ultrasound examination of carotid stenosis 50% to 99%
in neurologically symptomatic patients or 70% to
99% in asymptomatic patients is sufﬁcient to make
a decision regarding carotid a artery intervention in
appropriately selected patients.
2. When duplex ultrasound results are equivocal or may
be inaccurate owing to the presence of signiﬁcant
calciﬁcation or other ﬁndings, additional imaging
with MRA, CTA, or digital subtraction arteriography
may be considered before consideration of carotid artery revascularization procedure.
3. When evaluation of the vessels proximal or distal to
the cervical carotid artery is required for diagnosis or
to plan endovascular or surgical therapy, additional
imaging with CTA, MRA, or digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is indicated. CTA is preferred to MRA for
extreme calciﬁcation. When there is a discordance
between two minimally invasive imaging techniques,
DSA may be indicated to resolve conﬂicting results.
DSA is generally reserved for situations where there
is inconclusive evidence on minimally invasive studies,
or when CAS procedures are planned.
4. Imaging of the carotid bifurcation is recommended in
all patients with symptoms of cerebral ischemia. This
is based on the increased incidence of clinically relevant carotid stenosis and future stroke in this patient
group, and the efﬁcacy of carotid intervention in
reducing the risk of future stroke.
5. Imaging of the carotid bifurcation should be strongly
considered in patients who present with amaurosis
fugax, evidence of retinal artery embolization on

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al