. These Medicare costs have
continued to increase markedly. Analysis of data from the
Reduction of Atherothrombosis for Continued Health
(REACH) Registry estimated total costs of vascular-related
hospitalizations was $21 billion in the United States in
2004, with most costs associated with revascularization procedures.10 Given the ongoing dramatic increases in the use of
invasive treatments, these ﬁgures are likely underestimates of
the current costs for PAD care in the United States.
Evidence of underlying PAD may be present in the
absence of symptoms. For the purpose of this document,
this is referred to as asymptomatic disease. Symptomatic
PAD may present as IC, or with signs or symptoms consistent
with limb-threatening ischemia, often referred to as critical
limb ischemia (CLI). In this guidelines document, we will
only consider IC within the spectrum of symptomatic PAD.
IC is deﬁned as a reproducible discomfort in a speciﬁc
muscle group that is induced by exercise and then relieved
with rest. Although the calf muscles are most often affected,
any leg muscle group, such as those in the thigh or buttock,
may be affected. This condition is caused by arterial obstruction proximal to the affected muscle bed, thereby attenuating exercise-induced augmentation of blood ﬂow leading
to transient muscle ischemia. IC is often the ﬁrst clinical
symptom associated with PAD and the most common. It
is also well documented that many PAD patients experience

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

4S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Fig 1. The approximate odds ratios (ORs) for risk factors associated with the development of peripheral arterial disease
(PAD). Adapted from Inter-Society Consensus for the Management of Peripheral Arterial Disease (TASC II).9

Fig 2. The natural history of patients with intermittent claudication (IC) treated with non-invasive management. CV,
Cardiovascular; MI, myocardial infarction. Adapted from American College of Cardiology/Americal Heart Association
guidelines.43

“atypical” leg symptoms that may reﬂect other pathophysiologic mechanisms (eg, myopathy) or the overlay of concomitant conditions, such as neuropathy, arthritis, and lumbar