 extent of disease,
and whether they are best treated with EVT or open surgical therapy. This enables a more comprehensive discussion about risks, beneﬁts, and durability trade-offs for

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

various treatment options. Currently used imaging modalities include CTA,129,130 MRA,131 duplex ultrasound
imaging,132 and catheter angiography. Although all modalities may provide excellent imaging of the arterial circulation, each has its own unique set of advantages and
disadvantages and may vary in quality and availability
from institution to institution. Consequently, the modality
of choice varies widely depending on clinical practice.
There is insufﬁcient evidence at present to deﬁne the
most efﬁcient, cost-effective strategy for arterial imaging
in this population.
Catheter arteriography represents the gold standard
due to superior image resolution and the unique ability
of being able to perform a diagnostic study and EVT at
the same time. However, catheter arteriography is invasive
and may be complicated by contrast nephropathy, allergic
reactions, and access-site events.
Modern, multislice spiral CT scans are noninvasive and
provide image resolution of nearly the same quality as conventional arteriography. Moreover, the imaging data set
can be reconﬁgured into different formats, including axial,
coronal, sagittal, and three-dimensional images. However,
CTA requires a large dose of intravenous contrast and is
subject to artifact degradation due to calciﬁcation.
MRA has poorer resolution than angiography or CTA,
but its images are not degraded by calcium, and like CTA,
is noninvasive. Image quality is enhanced by the use of gadolinium; however, its use is contraindicated in patients with
signiﬁcant renal impairment due to the potential risk of
causing nephrogenic systemic ﬁbrosis. In addition, MRA
cannot be used in patients with pacemakers and a variety
of other implanted medical devices.
Duplex ultrasound arterial examination is most
commonly used as a screening modality to conﬁrm the diagnosis and to determine the severity of disease both before
and after treatment. It is occasionally used as a primary imaging modality during EVT, principally in the setting of isolated focal disease in the superﬁcial fem