 committee found no high-quality evidence to support a strategy of converting prosthetic accesses with impending failure to secondary autogenous accesses, and
these recommendations are based on very low-quality evidence that consists of unsystematic observations and the
consensus of experts.
6.2. Values and preferences
In recommending a proactive approach that involves
conversion of a failing or failed prosthetic access to a
secondary autogenous access before the prosthetic access
fails, the committee placed highest value on maintaining
functional permanent access and avoiding interruption of
dialysis and the need for central venous catheter placement,
known for an associated high rate of infection and possibly
mortality.
6.3. Technical remarks
In all instances, the construction of the new autogenous access should take place before abandonment of the
prosthetic one to allow for adequate time for autogenous
AV access maturity without the need for a long-term catheter. This is true whether the secondary autogenous access

is constructed by conversion of the prosthetic access mature
outflow vein to an autogenous access or by identifying a
new, remote site for autogenous access construction in a
patient where the prosthetic access outflow vein is not
deemed suitable, In preparation for the procedure, the
outflow veins should be evaluated, including the central
venous circulation, for the presence of obstruction.106 The
FFBI Work Group recommends that the evaluation for
secondary autogenous access be triggered by the initial AV
graft failure and that conversion to autogenous access be
performed no later than the second graft failure. This is to
allow adequate time for AV fistula maturation without need
for a catheter.
A. Conversion of prosthetic AV access outflow vein
to an autogenous access. This strategy is predominantly
applicable to forearm AV prosthetic access because the
outflow veins are readily accessible, well located for conversion to autogenous access for hemodialysis, and one or
more of the outflow veins are usually suitable as a conduit.
The outflow vein candidates in the arm are the cephalic,
basilic, and brachial veins. In situations where these veins
are not suitable, there may be an adequate vein in the
forearm that can be used as a retrograde-flow secondary
autogenous access, after disrupting one or more valves.
This is another reason why preoperative imaging to identify
all vessel options is