 of many deﬁciencies in available
evidence related to compression therapy.275 The use of
pressure-measuring devices at the skin-bandage interface
to ensure adequate pressure applied during the bandaging
is not routine; however, in speciﬁc circumstances (such as
study protocol and quality assurance), such instruments
can be applied.276,277

COMPRESSION

Guideline 5.1: CompressiondUlcer Healing
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer, we recommend
compression therapy over no compression therapy to
increase venous leg ulcer healing rate. [GRADE - 1;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - A]

Compression therapy is based on a mechanical concept
of applying pressure to the limb. This simple action causes
multiple biologic processes proved to be beneﬁcial for management of conditions ranging from occupational swelling
to venous ulcers. A variety of devices have been used for
compression therapy. Different types of bandages, bandage
systems, and ready-to-use garments can provide sustained
compression, whereas several pneumatic devices apply
intermittent compression.
For the treatment of VLU, compression systems, which
exert hemodynamic improvement on the dysfunctional
venous pumping function, are preferred. Such systems
that do not give way to the expanding muscle during
walking are either short-stretch textiles or multicomponent
bandages containing elastic material in combination with
an adhesive or cohesive covering layer. Such bandages
need to be applied by trained staff. Self-applicable and
adjustable short-stretch Velcro band devices may be an
alternative. Elastic bandages or compression stockings are
effective concerning edema reduction but are hemodynamically less effective in improving the venous pumping
function.274
Bandage layers should be differentiated from components. The term multilayer describes one bandage that always covers the leg with more than one layer because of
overlapping during application. Every multicomponent
bandage is a multilayer bandage, whereas graduated
compression stockings have a single compression layer.
The four-layer bandage (4LB) is a multicomponent
bandage consisting of four components: orthopedic wool,
crepe bandage, elastic bandage, and elastic cohesive (outer)
bandage. Applying several components and layers over
each other not only increases the pressure but also changes
the elastic property of the ﬁ