FS
[UGFS]
and
endovenous

thermal ablation).91 Although the cost effectiveness was
calculated for the UK, sensitivity analysis suggests that
the conclusions are robust to substantial changes in relative cost, and pertinent to other global healthcare
markets.
As an example, the REACTIV Trial, in which a subgroup
of patients with severe varicosities were randomized to
surgical therapy (HL&S, phlebectomy) compared with
compression therapy.92 Consistently, surgical therapy
produced better results with regards to anatomical disease extent, patient satisfaction, QOL, and cost
effectiveness.92
2.2. Compression therapy after intervention.
2.2.1. In patients undergoing thermal ablation for
saphenous incompetence, with or without concomitant phlebectomy, we suggest postprocedure
compression therapy for a minimum of 1 week for
pain reduction.
GUIDELINE: Grade of recommendation: 2 (weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Rationale. Compression therapy has been used to
reduce postoperative bleeding, bruising, edema, and
pain after thermal ablation of superﬁcial venous
trunks.93 The type of compression therapy prescribed
following treatment of varicose veins is widely variable
and driven by institutional-, physician-, and insurerlevel preferences. Most commonly, postprocedural
compression therapy is delivered with gradient elastic
compression stockings or elastic bandages. The presence of a pressure gradient, with the strongest
compression at the level of the ankle and lightest at the
top provides the most favorable hemodynamic proﬁle
for reducing limb edema. Stockings are constructed in
various lengths, such as knee high or thigh high, with
variable levels of compression. Compression levels
range from I to III, with I representing the lowest level of
compression and III the highest. Similarly, elastic
stockings vary in compressive properties based on the
length and type of bandage used.
Evidence. The use of compression therapy after ablation of superﬁcial truncal veins is controversial.94 In a

16

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

Table IV. Beneﬁts of compression therapy for varicose veins before intervention

First
author,
year