 is, a prosthetic brachial–antecubital
forearm loop access is performed. Care should be paid not
to cross the elbow for venous outflow to protect upper arm
veins for future autogenous access. Patients should be told
that this forearm prosthetic access is a “bridge” to an
autogenous access. The nephrologist should be informed
to minimize the number of attempts to salvage the access
with endovascular means to avoid ruining the venous outflow, preserving it to be used as a future autogenous access.
Upper arm. When the use of the forearm has been
exhausted, efforts at access are directed to the upper arm.
Similar to the forearm, use of the upper arm cephalic vein is
preferred to the basilic vein secondary to its lateral location
and only occasional need for extensive dissection, long
incisions, and transposition. For upper arm access, either

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

the brachial artery or proximal radial is the source of arterial
inflow. Therefore, in patients with an adequate cephalic
vein and a palpable brachial artery pulse, an autogenous
brachial– cephalic upper arm direct access is performed;
alternatively, the proximal radial artery may provide a reasonable alternative with less risk of steal. If the cephalic vein
is felt to be too deep or is located far from the brachial
artery, an autogenous brachial– cephalic upper arm transposition is performed.
When the cephalic vein is considered inadequate for an
autogenous AV access, the basilic vein in the upper arm is
the preferred alternative. Secondary to its medial and deep
location, transposition or superficialization is required for
all access using the basilic vein. In patients with an adequate
basilic vein and a palpable brachial artery pulse, an autogenous brachial– basilic upper arm transposition is performed.
Alternatively, the proximal radial artery may be used as
inflow, with less risk of steal.
If the cephalic or basilic veins have been used or are not
available, an upper extremity prosthetic AV access is performed. For upper arm access, the source of arterial inflow
is the brachial or