 because testing could result in unnecessary
saphenous vein ablation procedures.

Rationale. Asymptomatic CEAP Class C1 venous disorder
is usually a cosmetic problem; asymptomatic telangiectasias or reticular veins should not be treated for the purpose
of preventing progression to more advanced venous disease.
Saphenous vein ablation is not indicated in these patients for
medical reasons. The GSV may need to be used in the future

12

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

as a conduit for bypass in coronary or leg arteries; therefore, it
should be preserved whenever possible. Thus, DUS evaluation of the venous system should not be performed.
Evidence. There is no scientiﬁc evidence that complications of venous disorders can be prevented by treatment
of asymptomatic telangiectasias or reticular veins. Because
the GSV can be used as a conduit for bypass in coronary or
leg arteries, it should be preserved whenever possible. The
SVS published the “Choosing Wisely” initiative, which suggests that routine venous ultrasound testing in asymptomatic C1 patients should not be performed and that it could
result in unnecessary saphenous vein ablation procedures.63 Ruckley et al64 found a signiﬁcant but weak association between advanced telangiectasias, located at the
medial thigh and GSV incompetence.
1.5.2. In symptomatic CEAP Class C1 patients with
bleeding or with severe symptoms of pain or burning
due to moderate to severe telangiectasias or reticular
veins, DUS evaluation may be performed to exclude associated venous incompetence; however, saphenous ablation for C1 disease without bleeding is rarely required.
Rationale. DUS examination is only indicated in patients with complicated C1 disorder. The most severe
complication is bleeding, but in rare cases, pain and
burning due to telangiectasias or reticular veins are also
indications for DUS to evaluate and treat associated superﬁcial venous incompetence. Patients with mild symptoms and certainly those with cosmetic telangiectasias
with intermittent itching or other mild symptoms do
not need Duplex evaluation that could ultimately lead
to unnecessary ablation of superﬁcial truncal