 occurred in
patients without evidence of signiﬁcant restenosis or
occlusion.462
Summary and recommendations for the management of restenosis after CEA.
1. The use of patch angioplasty or eversion endarterectomy is generally preferred over conventional endarterectomy with primary closure to reduce the
incidence of recurrent carotid stenosis, particularly in
women or patients with small diameter ICAs.
2. Early recurrent stenosis after CEA can generally be
managed expectantly unless it is symptomatic, progressive or a very high grade/preocclusive lesion
($80%).
3. Late recurrent stenosis after CEA should be considered for reintervention with similar parameters as primary CEA in both symptomatic and asymptomatic
cases.
4. Reintervention for recurrent stenosis after CEA can
involve either redo endarterectomy/carotid artery
reconstruction or carotid stenting procedures based
upon the particular patient, clinical scenario and relevant anatomy.

Restenosis after CAS
Incidence. In-stent restenosis can be identiﬁed on
routine follow-up by duplex ultrasound examination.
Factors predisposing to in-stent restenosis are both mechanical and patient-related, but the most important is
the neointimal thickening within stent struts, leading to
lumen reduction.463 Late de novo atherosclerosis or
progressive atherosclerosis is also a common cause.
Available data on incidence, predictors, diagnostic
approach, and therapeutic strategies of restenosis after
CAS are poor and inconsistent.463 The incidence of carotid in-stent stenosis has been reported to vary between
1% and 30%, and might be slightly overestimated by
conventional duplex ultrasound examination.464,465 In
the EVA-3S trial, recurrent carotid stenosis (>70% as
deﬁned by duplex ultrasound examination), was 11.1% at
2 years after CAS, signiﬁcantly higher than after CEA
(4.6%; P ¼ .001).465 In contrast, a secondary analysis of the
Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy vs Stenting
Trial (CREST) trial showed no signiﬁcant difference in
restenosis or revascularization risk