 screening for carotid
stenosis in asymptomatic patients?
5. What is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid and coronary artery
disease?
These questions are addressed in a separate Clinical
Practice Guidelines document.
However, there are several additional topics in the management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease which
the writing group felt needed to be updated. This
Comprehensive Implementation Document was prepared to address those topics.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

29S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Each member of the writing group was assigned responsibility for compiling information on a speciﬁc topic
and ﬁndings were distributed to all members for review.
Each topic area was discussed and summary recommendations reﬂecting the unanimous opinion of the
writing group was reached by consensus.
Prevalence and incidence of stroke. The prevalence of
stroke prevalence in US adults (>18 years old) is currently
2.7%, a ﬁgure that is expected to increase to 3.9% by
2030 as the population ages. The American Heart Association (AHA) reports, “Every 40 seconds someone has a
stroke and every 3 minutes and 45 seconds someone in
the United States dies of a stroke.”11 With approximately
795,000 cases annually, stroke ranks ﬁfth among all causes of death in the United States and second globally.11,12
The estimated prevalence of self-reported physiciandiagnosed transient ischemic attack (TIA) is 2.3% and
also increases with advancing age. However, challenges
with accurate diagnosis suggest that true prevalence is
likely greater.13
Deﬁnition of TIA and stroke. The original 1950s deﬁnition of TIA was time-based, relying on an arbitrary
symptom duration of less than 24 hours.14 At that time,
TIA were deﬁned as sudden, focal neurologic deﬁcits of
vascular origin, but if the neurologic deﬁcit remained for
more than 7 days then it was a stroke. Events between
24 hours and 7 days were classiﬁed as reversible ischemic
neurologic deﬁcits. This term is no longer used because
