 and in 31.8% for saphenous varicose
vein. The main risk factor for progression
was obesity.

Prospective
observational

Lee, 2015126

880
patients
(13.4 years of
follow-up)

None

None

Progression rate of 57.8% (4.3% per year). Of
those with C2 disease only at baseline,
31.9% progressed to CVI

Prospective
observational

CEAP, Clinical stage, etiology, anatomy, pathology; CVD, chronic venous disease; CVI, chronic venous insufﬁciency.

underwent treatment of symptomatic varicose veins of
one lower extremity. CVD progression was signiﬁcantly
less in patients who were not obese and did not gain
weight during the study.125 Patients who did not use
compression stockings preoperatively and during the
follow-up or had stopped using them also had signiﬁcantly higher incidence of progression compared with
those who used compression.125
A Cochrane study in 2013 looked at nonpharmacological interventions to prevent CVI in standing workers.132
This systemic review concluded that due to the limited
number of trials and study participants, there was insufﬁcient evidence to draw any conclusions as to whether
nonpharmacologic strategies including compression
were effective at preventing the development of CVI in
standing workers. Another systematic review of compression for uncomplicated C2 disease found no consensus
on the class of compression needed for the effective
management of varicose veins and no evidence that
wearing compression slows the progression or recurrence of varicose veins.129 Although evidence presented
in these guidelines show that interventions on varicose
veins are associated with improved QOL and decreased
morbidity, no study examined the role of surgical or
endovascular therapies on C2 patients to prevent longitudinal progression to CVI. The role of treatment in preventing such progression remains undeﬁned.
5.2.2. Interventions to treat varicose veins can be performed in an ofﬁce-based setting, surgery center, or

hospital operating room, at the discretion of the physician, who is specialized in vein care. Better patient
experience and lower cost was