 explicitly described in this article. In addition, because of the multidisciplinary nature of the committee, these recommendations
reflect consensus among access surgeons and nephrologists. Although by spearheading this project the SVS aimed
to provide a structure to form the underpinning of patient
evaluation and decision making by the access surgeon, it is
important to emphasize that these recommendations are
not intended to supersede the surgeon’s final judgment
regarding the management of the individual patient.
1. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Timing of
referral to AV access surgeon and timing of
placement of permanent vascular access
We recommend that patients with advanced CKD
disease (late stage 4, MDRD <20 to 25 mL/min) who
have elected hemodialysis as their choice of renal replacement therapy be referred to an access surgeon in
order to evaluate and plan construction of AV access
(GRADE 1 recommendation, very low-quality evidence).

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

4S Sidawy et al

A. If at the conclusion of the evaluation, upper extremity arterial and venous anatomy is adequate
for an autogenous AV access, such access should
be constructed as soon as possible to allow it
enough time to mature and undergo further interventions that may be needed to ensure that the
access is ready to be used when dialysis is initiated.
B. If a prosthetic access is to be constructed, this
should be delayed until just before the need for
dialysis.
1.1. Evidence
A systematic review of the literature demonstrated that
the evidence on the appropriate timing of referring patients
to vascular surgery is very scarce.13 Two observational
studies demonstrated that ⬍5% of patients who were seen
by a vascular surgeon ⬎1 month before hemodialysis was
initiated used a catheter as their first access17 and that,
compared with late access construction (ⱕ1 month of
hemodialysis), early access construction (ⱖ4 months before
hemodialysis) was associated with lower risk of death and
sepsis, with relative risks (RRs) of 0.76 (95% confidence
interval [CI], 0.58-1.00) and 0.57 (95% CI, 