9%]). Further
subanalysis may demonstrate this is relevant to those
with diabetes and therefore this may affect an individual’s preference for intervention. From the perspective
of the person receiving treatment, the difference in
length of hospital stay should be taken into account,
which in the systematic review was longer in the bypass
publications than in endovascular publications. In addition, people might prefer to have an endovascular
approach given the more invasive approach of bypass
surgery.
Considering costs, there are probably no major differences except the length of hospital stay; however, this
is yet to be determined and may be an additional
outcome of the BEST-CLI study. Subsequent analyses
are also awaited to shed more light on the anatomical
patterns and extent of disease treated, as well as which
patterns of disease were not well represented or
excluded. As BEST-CLI is currently the only randomised
controlled trial (RCT) in this area, the certainty of the evidence for the recommendation was moderate. Given
the important differences in outcomes in the BEST-CLI
trial it is recommended to consider bypass surgery as
the ﬁrst option in people with a suitable saphenous
vein. It is acknowledged that this recommendation
may lead to some major changes in the policy of the
many centres, which currently have an endovascular ﬁrst
approach for everyone.
The recommendation may not be feasible in the short
term in all countries due to the lack of equipment and
expertise. Finally, it should be noted that in the BESTCLI study, endovascular procedures could be performed
in the iliac and common femoral artery to ensure
optimal inﬂow into the bypass, emphasising that a
centre treating PAD in people with a DFU should have
the expertise to perform both endovascular and bypass
procedures. In addition, in some centres the immediate
availability of an endovascular approach might be a
reason to opt for this treatment when an urgent revascularisation is needed or when the surgical risk is deemed
too high. For these reasons and the moderate certainty
of the evidence a Conditional Recommendation was
made.
In people with diabetes in whom a revascularisation is
considered but who do not have a suitable single
segment GSV for bypass surgery, the results in BEST-CLI
were similar for endovascular and surgical bypass. This
statement is