 of visits
beyond the immediate perioperative period remains undeﬁned. There is likely some usefulness in an imagebased surveillance protocol based on the contention
that the identiﬁcation of a signiﬁcant lesion may lead
to a remedial intervention that will translate into a better
outcome in terms of vessel/graft patency and a lower
incidence of recurrent symptoms and death. The purported beneﬁts of surveillance in this setting are similar
to those after lower extremity bypass, but it is noteworthy
that surveillance after lower extremity bypass has not
been shown to be effective in a well-performed randomized trial162 nor supported in the Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus II recommendations.163 Schoch et al164
reported that 83% of the patients undergoing endovascular treatment for CMI (n ¼ 107) developed elevated velocities of the target lesion on DUS imaging, although
53% did not require any remedial intervention.
Liem et al165 reported the results of their surveillance protocol after open mesenteric bypass. Although they were
able to identify an association with smaller graft diameter
and increased PSVs, they were unable to identify any predictors of graft thrombosis. A practical longer term followup protocol may include clinic evaluation and imagebased surveillance within 1 month of the initial procedure
(either open or endovascular revascularization) and then
every 6 months for the ﬁrst 2 years and yearly thereafter.
However, the frequency of visits may well be inﬂuenced
by the presence or severity of recurrent stenosis or symptoms. The value of the early postoperative imaging study
to conﬁrm the technical adequacy of the revascularization and to serve as a baseline for future studies has
been emphasized in the preceding sections. Notably,
the suggested follow-up and surveillance protocol is
consistent with the Society for Vascular Surgery practice
guidelines for follow-up after arterial procedures.166
DUS examination is the ideal initial imaging study for
the detection of recurrent stenoses and the recommended surveillance imaging study for the de novo lesions.
However, the velocity criteria for the native mesenteric
vessel tend to overestimate the degree of stenosis in
the treated vessels after both endovascular and open
revascularization. Several studies have documented the
velocity criteria for recurrent