 and occlude one of the branch vessels if not adequately protected.
The SFA is the most common site of atherosclerotic
occlusive disease resulting in claudication. The severity
of symptoms from occlusive disease in the SFA varies
considerably, based on the extent of collateralization
from the profunda femoral artery to the geniculate collateral arteries at the popliteal artery. After failure of an exercise program and optimization of medical therapy,
endovascular intervention can be considered. Open surgical bypass success is dependent on arterial inﬂow,
outﬂow, and the quality of the bypass conduit. Primary
predictors of endovascular success and long-term patency
differ signiﬁcantly and include the length of the lesion,
degree of stenosis, size of the artery, and degree of
calciﬁcation.

24S Conte and Pomposelli et al

PTA alone has been shown to be most effective for
short focal lesions in the SFA (<4 cm). However, all angioplasties can be complicated by ﬂow-limiting dissection,
embolization, and acute arterial recoil with the associated
risk of abrupt closure. The adjunct use of a selfexpanding covered or BMS has been shown to be effective
in improving patency of longer lesions in the SFA and to
treat PTA-related complications of dissection and acute
recoil. Several trials have demonstrated the efﬁcacy and
possible superiority of self-expanding stents in the treatment of longer SFA lesions. In the Randomized Study
Comparing the Edwards Self-Expanding LifeStent vs
Angioplasty-alone In Lesions Involving The SFA and/or
Proximal Popliteal Artery (RESILIENT) study, nitinol
BMSs were compared with angioplasty. Treatment of multiple lesions was permitted provided they were treated with
one stent. The mean lesion treated was 7.1 cm in stent
cohort and 6.4 cm in the angioplasty cohort. The reported
observed patency at 1 year was 81.3% and 36.7%, respectively, for the stent and angioplasty groups.194 In a 3year follow-up of the RESILIENT study, freedom from
target lesion revascularization and clinical success