 be treated
prophylactically with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or surgical revision if the stenosis is ⬎50% of the
lumen diameter and is associated with clinical/physiologic
abnormalities.
Management of thrombosed access. The mainstay of the
management of thrombosed access is clot management,
identification of stenotic lesions causing thrombosis, and
management of significant stenotic lesions. Clot management alone is usually not sufficient for long-term patency
unless the inciting factor is transient, such as access
compression or an episode of hypotension. Management
of thrombosed access can be by surgical or endovascular
techniques. In either method, the clot or thrombus
needs to be removed: surgically using a Fogarty balloon
catheter or by endovascular means using thrombolysis,
mechanical thrombectomy devices, or a combination
thereof. Many of these devices are currently being used;
a description of such devices can be found elsewhere in
the literature.
1. Open surgical management: After surgical catheter
thrombectomy, stenotic lesions either at the venous
outflow anastomosis of a prosthetic graft or in the main
body of the autogenous access have been traditionally
managed by open surgical techniques. If the lesion is
short, a patch angioplasty can be performed using either
autogenous venous or prosthetic material. When the
lesion is long or multiple sequential lesions are found, a
vein segment or a piece of prosthetic graft is used to
bypass the diseased segment. This bypass can be performed either to replace the diseased segment or to
bypass it to a proximal healthy vein. This should be
planned in a way to keep, if possible, an incorporated
segment of a prosthetic access or a mature segment of an
autogenous access free to be continuously used for
dialysis, obviating the need for catheter placement while
the new replacement segment incorporates or matures.
This is well demonstrated when a prosthetic access
thrombosis due to a hyperplastic lesion at the graft–vein

Sidawy et al 19S

interface is being surgically repaired. A longitudinal
incision is made in the prosthetic graft and extended to
the vein through