. Medical management for the perioperative period
of CAS

Hypertension is a common comorbidity in patients
undergoing CEA. Blood pressure fluctuations, both
above and below normal, are a significant source of
morbidity and may contribute to MI and postoperative
reperfusion syndrome. Careful periprocedural blood
pressure management is critical to obtaining optimal
results from the operation. Although the most recent
AHA guidelines do not classify CEA as a high-risk surgical procedure mandating ␤-blockade, they do indicate
that all patients with known CAD should receive

Antihypertensive, ␤-blocker, and lipid-lowering therapy should be initiated in patients undergoing CAS according to the same recommendations for CEA. Patients should
be started on dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin (325
mg) and clopidogrel (75 mg) or ticlopidine (250 mg). No
randomized trial has yet compared CAS performed with
dual-antiplatelet therapy vs aspirin alone. However, the
published periprocedural stroke, MI, and death rates in all
recent clinical trials have been achieved with this combination therapy.9,10,162,163 Dual-antiplatelet therapy should

patients compliant with aspirin therapy may still develop
atherothrombotic complications, such as stroke. Reduced
antiaggregant effect is more common in patients taking
lower-dose aspirin (81 mg) or 325 mg aspirin with an
enteric coating than it is in patients taking 325 mg of
noncoated aspirin daily.145 The lack of consensus for the
definition of aspirin resistance and for the specific laboratory test to identify it has led to large variability in its
reported prevalence.146 The routine laboratory evaluation
of platelet reactivity is not justifiable. The pharmacologic
response to clopidogrel also demonstrates significant interindividual variability.
Patients with reduced platelet inhibition in response to
clopidogrel appear to be at increased risk for cardiovascular
events. This resistance may result from reduced bioavailability, polymorphisms of cytochrome P450, additional
genetic variants, or increased platelet turnover.147 Prasugrel is an alternate platelet-inhibiting pharmacologic