ilateral (or
contralateral) internal iliac vein, or (4) filling of vulvovaginal and thigh varicosities.375
Treatment. Various nonsurgical and surgical approaches are available to treat pelvic congestion syndrome.
Pharmacologic agents to suppress ovarian function, such as
medroxyprogesterone or gonadotropin-releasing hormone, may offer short-term pain relief, but their long-term
effectiveness has not been proven. Surgical approaches,
including hysterectomy with unilateral or bilateral oophorectomy and ovarian vein ligation and excision, with interruption of as many collateral veins as possible, have been
suggested for patients unresponsive to medical therapy.373
Percutaneous transcatheter embolization of refluxing
ovarian and internal iliac vein tributaries with coils, plugs,
or sclerotherapy, usually as combination treatment, has
become the standard approach for management of both
pelvic congestion syndrome and varices arising from a
pelvic source.
Results. Transcatheter therapy has been reported to
improve symptoms in 50% to 80% of patients. Chung and
Huh374 randomized 106 premenopausal women with
chronic pelvic pain unresponsive to medical treatment to
one of three treatment regimens: (1) ovarian vein embolization, (2) laparoscopic hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-

oophorectomy, and hormone replacement, or (3) laparoscopic hysterectomy and unilateral oophorectomy. Mean
pain scores as assessed on a 10-point visual analog scale
were significantly improved among those undergoing ovarian vein embolization or bilateral oophorectomy, but not
among those undergoing unilateral oophorectomy. Pain
reduction at 12 months was greatest in those undergoing
embolotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS
The revolution in endovascular technology has transformed the evaluation and treatment of venous disease
during the past decade. To keep up with the rapidly changing technology, in this document the Venous Guideline
Committee of the SVS and the AVF provides evidencebased guidelines for the management of varicose veins and
associated CVDs in 2011. These guidelines are essential to
the clinical practice using evidence-based medicine and play
a major role— but not the