fusion injury.
There are no large series of patients treated in a standard manner from which to draw definitive conclusions
regarding optimal therapy. In patients where hemorrhage
has been excluded by brain imaging, some surgeons use a
heparin infusion to try to stabilize these patients and prevent propagation of thrombus as part of their immediate

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

management. Only a few reports have included outcomes
of CEA in patients with stroke in evolution. In general the
stroke/death rates range from 9.2% to 26.2%.230,248,250-252
This reflects the heterogenous group of patients and lack of
standard selection criterion for intervention. There are no
data on unoperated-on controls for comparison. The lack
of high-quality data on the treatment of stroke in evolution
precludes any clear conclusions on the management of this
group of patients. There has not been a significant experience with CAS in these patients, distinct from what is
referenced above for acute stroke, to draw conclusions.
3. Crescendo TIA. This relatively rare clinical syndrome is characterized by repetitive episodes of transient
neurologic ischemia, followed by return to a normal neurologic status. The definition of “crescendo” varies, but
generally includes multiple repetitive events within a 24hour period that do not respond to antiplatelet therapy.
High-grade stenosis of the carotid bifurcation, often with
associated ulceration or thrombus, is a common finding.
Brain imaging does not reveal a significant area of infracted
brain, and there may or may not be a large ischemic
penumbra. Symptoms are thought to arise from an unstable
carotid plaque with recurrent emboli despite antiplatelet
therapy or from unstable cerebral hemodynamics associated with the bifurcation lesion.
Therapy in these patients is directed at removing the
causative lesion at the carotid bifurcation. Again, some
surgeons advocate heparin therapy in the immediate preoperative period if intracranial hemorrhage has been excluded, but this is based on personal experience rather than
reported data. Urgent CEA in these patients has been
associated with an increased risk of stroke compared with
“elective” interventions. Overall, however, the