
patency (surveillance vs no
and imprecision)
difference between clinical
RCTs comparing clinical
surveillance, clinical followexamination and DUS
examination vs DUS
up vs duplex scanning,
shorter interval of surveillance
vs longer interval)
CLI, Critical limb ischemia; DUS, duplex ultrasound; RCT, randomized controlled trial.
clinical failure after SFA stenting can be determined, selective
prophylactic reintervention after SFA stenting might be
reasonable. At this time, however, no such data exist.
In summary, the natural history of stenotic lesions from
EVT remains uncertain, and the beneﬁts of intervention
based on duplex ﬁndings alone not yet established. Until
such criteria are available, patients undergoing EVT should
have serial clinical follow-up, including simple hemodynamic
measurements, at clinical intervals appropriate for the indication for intervention and the extent of disease treated. In
general, those treated for CLI, and with long-segment occlusions should be monitored more closely than those treated
for claudication.219,261,265 The role of duplex imaging in
these patients is currently unclear although useful in determining whether recurrent symptoms are due to stenosis or
occlusion and to localize lesions, which might alter the treatment plan. Continued use of duplex may also help to clarify
its role further, especially when correlated with clinical presentation, angiographic ﬁndings, and ultimate outcome.

REFERENCES
1. Alahdab F, Wang AT, Elraiyah TA, Malgor RD, Rizvi AZ, Lane MA,
et al. A systematic review for the screening for peripheral arterial
disease in asymptomatic patients. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:42S-53S.
2. Malgor RD, Alalahdab F, Elraiyah TA, Rizvi AZ, Lane MA,
Prokop LJ, et al. A systematic review of treatment of intermittent
claudication in the lower extremities. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:54S-73S.
3. Gloviczki P, Comerota AJ, Dalsing MC, Eklof BG, Gillespie DL,
Gloviczki ML, et al. The care of patients with varicose veins and
associated chronic