80%. Secondary patency can usually be maintained with repeat percutaneous interventional therapy, with
1-year and 5-year secondary patency noted to be 90% to 100%
and 60% to 100%, respectively.148-150
Percutaneous approaches can be achieved through a
femoral or brachial approach or combinations of the two approaches. Stent types used include balloon-expandable and
self-expanding stents,151 with or without covering. The choice
of stent used relates to the type of disease and size of stent available. More calciﬁc disease will usually require greater resistance
to crush, which is achieved with balloon-expandable stents,
whereas self-expanding stents are more readily available in
slightly larger diameters. Few comparative data are available
for assessing outcomes of these varied stent types. Covered
stent placement in the aorta has few data on which to base
any speciﬁc recommendations regarding use.152
Stents should be sized appropriately to the native aorta,
with consideration given for the tissue displaced (especially
calciﬁc disease). This may necessitate undersizing the stent relative to the diameter of the native normal-caliber aorta to reduce
the risk of rupture, which has been reported with this approach.
In general, care should be taken not to preclude
possible AFB grafting in the future in surgical candidates,
such as by extending stents into the perirenal aorta. Stents
should not be placed across the oriﬁce of the renal arteries,
and disease abutting the renal ostia poses increased risk for
obstruction or embolization of the renal arteries. The aortic
bifurcation is best currently treated with “kissing stents” at
the origin of the iliac arteries or with a combination of
aortic stent placement down to the bifurcation and then
kissing stents placed at the iliac vessel origins.153,154 The
use of aortic stent grafts for occlusive disease142 has been
described in only limited situations, and the routine use
of this approach awaits further data acquisition.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

18S Conte and Pom