 eating habits.
The postprandial pain can lead to a decrease in oral
intake and food fear with the end results that patients
lose weight and can even become cachectic in the
more extreme scenarios. In one series of patients undergoing mesenteric revascularization, abdominal pain was
present in 96%, occurring after eating in only 74%,
whereas weight loss occurred in 84% and food fear in
45%.6 Notably, there was a delay of 15 months from the
onset of symptoms to the deﬁnitive diagnosis in this series. In another series from Europe, the typical postprandial abdominal pain was present in 85%, weight loss in
77%, and food fear in 63%, whereas diarrhea, nausea, or
vomiting were noted in 56%.35 Allain et al36 examined
the impact of malnutrition on outcome after revascularization for CMI (n ¼ 54) using body mass index, percentage of
weight loss and serum albumin. They found that 70% of
the patients undergoing revascularization were malnourished and that it was associated with increased perioperative mortality and decreased longer term survival.
Interestingly, not all patients are cachectic or malnourished
at the time of presentation. Mansukhani et al37 reported
that 35% of the patients in their recent series undergoing
revascularization for CMI were overweight or obese with
a body mass index of greater than 25, a trend that they
attributed to the obesity epidemic across the country.
The common delays in diagnosis can often be explained
by inconsistencies in the patient’s symptoms, the extensive differential for chronic abdominal pain with weight
loss, and the low prevalence of CMI in the population.
These delays are usually attributed to the extensive diagnostic workups performed by the responsible primary
care physician or gastroenterologist, before referral to
the vascular specialist. In practice, many of the patients
have completed their extensive evaluation and are
referred to the specialist with a tentative diagnosis of
CMI. Regardless of the explanations for the diagnostic

delay, an expeditious diagnosis can lead to timely treatment and avoid the sequelae of CMI, as well as the nutritional deﬁciencies that may affect the perioperative
course.
Although patients with CMI