, long-term
follow-up, and treatment of late complications.
Decision-making related to the care of patients with AAA
is complex. Aneurysms present with varying risks of
rupture, and patient-speciﬁc factors inﬂuence anticipated life expectancy, operative risk, and need to intervene. Careful attention to the choice of operative
strategy, as inﬂuenced by anatomic features of the AAA,
along with optimal treatment of medical comorbidities
is critical to achieving excellent outcomes. Moreover,
appropriate postoperative surveillance of the patient and
timely intervention in the case of a late complication are
necessary to minimize subsequent aneurysm-related
death or morbidity. All of these clinical decisions are
determined in an environment where cost-effectiveness
will ultimately dictate the ability to provide optimal
care to the largest possible segment of the population.
Currently available clinical data sets have been reviewed
in formulating these recommendations. However, an
important goal of this document is to clearly identify
those areas where further clinical research is necessary.
Methodology and evidence. A comprehensive review
of the available clinical evidence in the literature was
conducted to generate a concise set of recommendations. The strength of any given recommendation and
the quality of evidence were graded on the basis of the
GRADE approach.3 The quality of evidence derived
from randomized trials has an initial rating of high,
whereas evidence derived from observational studies has
an initial rating of low. GRADE domains are then used to
modify this initial rating; these domains include risk of
bias, consistency of the results across studies, directness
of the populations and interventions of the studies to the
question at hand, precision of the estimates of effect, and
size of the observed effect. When the beneﬁts of an
intervention outweighed its risks or, alternatively, risks
outweighed beneﬁts, a strong recommendation was
noted. However, if beneﬁts and risks were less certain,
because of low-quality evidence or because high-quality
evidence suggests that beneﬁts and risks are closely
balanced, a weak recommendation was recorded.
Guideline developers used the term we recommend to
denote strong recommendations, whereas for weak
recommendations, they used the less deﬁnitive wording

we suggest. Thus, quality of evidence was rated high
when additional research is considered very unlikely to
change conﬁdence in the