 DVTs, but
one patient needed antibiotic treatment for septic
thrombophlebitis.224

In summary, there is little to no randomized data for
the perforator treatment of choice for patients with
recurrent/persistent C2 disease, with an associated
IPV. When treatment of an IPV in a C2 patient is
desired, one should rely on experience, patient wishes,
and the availability of the various techniques reviewed
above.
11. Management of ablation-related thrombus extension (ARTE) and DVT after endovenous ablations
11.1. Postprocedure DUS
11.1.1. In an average-risk patient who is asymptomatic following thermal ablation of the saphenous
vein, we recommend against routine early postprocedural DUS to detect ARTE (formerly known as endovenous heat induced thrombosis [EHIT]) or DVT.
GUIDELINE. Grade of recommendation 1 (strong),
Quality of Evidence B (moderate)
11.1.2. In an average-risk patients who is asymptomatic following nonthermal ablation of the saphenous
vein, routine early postprocedural DUS may be performed to detect ARTE or DVT.
Consensus statement
11.1.3. In a high-risk patient who is asymptomatic
following thermal or nonthermal saphenous ablation
early DUS to exclude ARTE or DVT should be
performed.

46

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2024

Table XXXIII. Evidence to decision framework: Immediate intervention vs 3-months trial of compression
Domain

Evidence/Panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable
effects of the strategy?

There is no data proving the value of a 3-month trial of
compression stockings before intervention for patients with
C2 disease, required by some Insurance companies.
Compression therapy was found to be inferior to minimally
invasive endovenous therapies (including UGFS and
endovenous thermal ablation) that produce better results
with regards to anatomical disease extent, patient
satisfaction and QOL.

Probably no

How substantial are the
undesirable anticipated
effects?

Reported side effects of discomfort, appearance, and
