 been completed.
If hemodynamic compromise is present or evolves
during the process of evaluation, further imaging studies
should be abandoned as care is escalated.
We recommend a CT scan to evaluate patients thought to
have AAA presenting with recent-onset abdominal or back
pain, particularly in the presence of a pulsatile epigastric
mass or signiﬁcant risk factors for AAA.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

B (Moderate)

TREATMENT OF THE PATIENT WITH AN AAA
The decision to treat
It is recognized that the majority of patients will be
asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis of an AAA. Less
frequently, the ﬁrst presentation of an unrecognized AAA
may, in fact, be a symptomatic aneurysm manifested by
abdominal or back pain or even rupture. Should this be
the case, prompt treatment is recommended.
Most AAAs are fusiform rather than saccular, and
current recommendations for treatment of asymptomatic fusiform AAA rest primarily on the maximum transverse diameter as measured on ultrasound, CT, or
magnetic resonance imaging. Conventional arteriography can easily underestimate the true diameter by
not accounting for luminal thrombus.
There is general agreement that small aneurysms, <4.0
cm in maximum diameter, are at low risk of rupture and
should be monitored, whereas an aneurysm >5.4 cm in
diameter should be repaired in an otherwise healthy
patient. Elective repair is also recommended for patients
who present with a saccular aneurysm, and although
size guidelines are currently lacking because of their

28

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaikof et al

January 2018

Fig 4. Estimated time to have a 10% probability of attaining an aortic diameter of 5.5 cm in male patients (see
primary source for individual study citations). The black diamonds represent 95% conﬁdence intervals and error
bars represent 95% prediction intervals. MASS, Multicenter Aneurysm Screening Study; PIVOTAL, Positive
Impact of Endovascular Options for Treating Aneurysm Early; UKSAT, UK Small Aneurysm Trial. (Adapted from
Thompson SG, Brown LC, Sweeting MJ, Bown