, endovascular/open revascularization, and surveillance/remediation. A formal systematic review was performed by the evidence team to identify the optimal technique
for revascularization. Speciﬁc practice recommendations were developed using the Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation system based on review of literature, the strength of the data, and consensus.
Results: Patients with symptoms consistent with CMI should undergo an expedited workup, including a computed tomography arteriogram, to exclude other potential causes. The diagnosis is supported by signiﬁcant arterial occlusive disease
in the mesenteric vessels, particularly the superior mesenteric artery. Treatment requires revascularization with the primary
target being the superior mesenteric artery. Endovascular revascularization with a balloon-expandable covered intraluminal stent is the recommended initial treatment with open repair reserved for select younger patients and those who are
not endovascular candidates. Long-term follow-up and surveillance are recommended after revascularization and for
asymptomatic patients with severe mesenteric occlusive disease. Patient with recurrent symptoms after revascularization
owing to recurrent stenoses should be treated with an endovascular-ﬁrst approach, similar to the de novo lesion.
Conclusions: These practice guidelines were developed based on the best available evidence. They should help to
optimize the care of patients with CMI. Multiple areas for future research were identiﬁed. (J Vasc Surg 2021;73:87S-115S.)

Department of Surgery, University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville,
FL 32610-0128 (e-mail: thomas.huber@surgery.uﬂ.edu).

Scripps Green Hospital, La Jollac; the Division of Vascular and Endovascular

Independent peer-review and oversight has been provided by members of the

Surgery, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesvilled; the Division of

SVS Document Oversight Committee (Ruth Bush, Chair, Marc Schermerhorn,

Vascular Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolise; the Di-

Vice-Chair, Keith Calligaro, Mark Davies, Yazan Duwayri, Mohammad Eslami,

vision of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of Texas Health Sci-

Alik Farber, Raul Guzman, Katherine