endovascular exclusion of the aneurysm. Given the possibility of central liver necrosis despite adequate collateral
ﬂow by endovascular exclusion,93 in low-risk patients,

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

25S

Volume 72, Number 1S

open surgical revascularization using autologous vein
conduit is recommended if endovascular stent graft
exclusion is not possible.151 Temporary occlusion of the
hepatic artery during reconstruction may guide revascularization or ligation of the HAA.151 More distal extrahepatic HAA branches are often associated with biliary
inﬂammation, making these repairs challenging. Endovascular repair of extrahepatic HAA depends on the collaterals and location of the HAA, similar to open repair.
Given that maintenance of distal organ perfusion is
important, in patients with proper hepatic artery, endovascular repair requires covered stent exclusion of the
aneurysm rather than coil embolization.
The Table represents the summary of treatment recommendations for all extrahepatic aneurysms.
Intrahepatic aneurysms will require resection of the
lobe in which the aneurysm is located. Given the signiﬁcant comorbidities associated with liver resection, endovascular interventions have become the primary
treatment modality for these intrahepatic lesions when
feasible. Complications of embolization include hepatic
ischemia, abscess, cholecystitis, and possible recanalization.151,161,162 Coil embolization is discouraged in patients
with large parenchymal lesions or if large segments of
liver are at risk of ischemia. In these patients, liver lobe
resection should be considered.

As noted, most patients with HAA are diagnosed
with CT performed for other reasons.150 Given the
sensitivity and speciﬁcity of CTA for diagnosis of other
intra-abdominal aneurysms, we recommend CTA to
diagnose other intra-abdominal aneurysms. In thin
patients, abdominal duplex ultrasound is sensitive
and speciﬁc in detecting abdominal or iliac artery aneurysms, but this study needs to be performed on individual