 and use of an
embolic protection device has been required by Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services to qualify for reimbursement.
Several embolic protection devices are available, and
selection depends on lesion characteristics and anatomic
considerations. Options include proximal or distal occlusion devices designed to interrupt forward flow during the
procedure and filter devices placed distal to the lesion
designed to trap debris released during the procedure.
Distal occlusion devices have the advantage of a smaller
diameter than proximal occlusion devices, but the lesion
must be crossed before the device is placed in the ICA, a
maneuver that can itself cause embolization. At the end of
the procedure, suction is applied between the sheath in the
CCA and the balloon occluding the distal internal carotid
artery to remove debris.
Proximal occlusion devices require placement of two
occlusion balloons, one each in the common and external
carotid artery, with flow reversal by suction or creation of a
proximal arteriovenous connection.184 Placement of a
proximal occlusion device avoids crossing the lesion before

Ricotta et al e13

protection is in place and has been associated with the
lowest incidence of distal embolization as detected by
transcranial Doppler imaging or postoperative MRI.184-186
The main procedural disadvantages of the current
proximal occlusion devices are the relatively large size (9F)
of the access sheath, the need to occlude both the common
and external carotid artery, and the need to establish venous
access for continuous flow reversal. Proximal and distal
occlusion devices may both be problematic in patients with
poor intracranial collateral circulation because they mandate cessation—and sometimes reversal— of antegrade flow
in the ICA. This situation is generally encountered in ⱕ5%
of patients and may be managed by short intermittent
inflation times.
Distal filters are deployed in the distal ICA and trap
debris released during angioplasty and stent deployment.
Like distal occlusion devices, they have the advantage of a
smaller diameter (6F), but the lesion must be initially
crossed in an unprotected fashion. These filters come in a
variety of configurations and pore sizes. Their efficacy is
related