ed by
extent. In contrast to previous systems, WIfI also considers
the anticipated complexity of the procedure(s) required to
achieve wound healing. As shown in Table II, grade 1
wounds are characterized by minor tissue loss salvageable
with simple digital amputation or skin coverage. Grade 2
wounds are more advanced, but potentially salvageable
with multiple digital amputations or at most, a standard
transmetatarsal amputation. Extensive tissue loss that will
require amputation proximal to the level of a standard
transmetatarsal amputation (Chopart or Lisfranc) or will
require a free ﬂap or a large full thickness heel ulcer are
assigned the highest class of severity, grade 3. Advanced
gangrene upon presentation that precludes salvage of
a functional foot is excluded from classiﬁcation (stage 5;
Tables IV-VI).

The presence and severity of infection and its threat to
limb has been systematically ignored by many classiﬁcation
systems. The risk of amputation correlates directly with
increasing infection severity. Especially in patients with diabetes, infection is often the major event that prompts
hospitalization and leads to amputation; infection in the
presence of PAD dramatically increases risk.34,53,54 The
IDSA classiﬁcation system is a clinical one that does not
require complex imaging.42 A longitudinal study of 1666
persons with diabetes conﬁrmed increased risk for amputation (P < .001), higher-level amputation (P < .001), and
lower extremity-related hospitalization (P < .001) with
increasing infection severity based on IDSA classiﬁcation.46
IDSA class 2 and 3 infections in particular markedly
increased hospitalization and amputation rates from negligible to the 50%-80% range. Both the Eurodiale53,54 and
Circulase trial11 data conﬁrm that infection is frequently
the trigger to amputation in patients with a threatened
limb. Infection appears to be especially detrimental in
patients with PAD compared with those with normal
perfusion. In fact, the combination of infection and PAD
in the Eurodiale study tripled the likelihood of wound nonhealing.54