 chronic venous insufﬁciency have progressed tremendously during the past
decade. Based largely on results of a systematic review
performed by Murad et al,11 the SVS and the AVF published clinical practice guidelines in 2011 on the care of
patients with varicose veins and associated chronic
venous diseases.9 The current systematic review on the
management of varicose veins analyzed data of 45 RCTs,
28 observational studies, and 1 systematic review and
revealed new evidence on safety, efﬁcacy, durability, AEs,
and patient-reported outcomes, including QoL of open
surgery and a large variety of minimally invasive percutaneous interventions used for the treatment of varicose
veins and associated superﬁcial or perforator vein
incompetence. To help update the key recommendations of the previous guidelines and increase reporting
transparency, this systematic review focused on four
major questions affecting varicose vein management.
The ﬁrst question was selected to determine if the evidence supports DUS examination as the diagnostic test
of choice for patients with varicose veins. This question
is important because DUS examination has become
the standard of care for most venous specialists. In addition, most insurance companies require a DUS report
with the minimum criteria of size and extent of venous
reﬂux for procedural authorization. However, some
venous specialists continue to use a HHD plus physical
examination to assess vein size and reﬂux; this is a qualitative assessment of a varicose vein, usually performed
by a physician, without visual documentation of the
anatomy, the extent of reﬂux, or its location. The venous
DUS study provides data not only on reﬂux time and
the size of each superﬁcial vein, but also anatomic
location, helping to differentiate between a duplicated
superﬁcial truncal vein and an accessory vein, as well as
the depth and extent of the reﬂux. In addition, a DUS examination can identify perforating veins along the path
of the truncal vein. All of this additional information
may have important therapeutic implications.
Unfortunately,
prospective,
randomized
studies
comparing a HHD examination with DUS examination
have not been performed since DUS examination
became the standard of care in the