 access
 Continuous vital sign monitoring
 Permissive hypotension (to maintain a mental status
and target systolic pressure of 70-90 mmHg)
 Transfer of obtained images (either by upload or
CD/DVD)

Fig 6. Referring hospital checklist for the patient with a
suspected or conﬁrmed ruptured aneurysm.

Receiving Hospital Personnel Alert Checklist
 Emergency department attending physician
 Emergency department nursing
 Vascular surgery attending physician and team
 Anesthesiology team
 Operating room charge nurse
 Vascular technologist
 Admitting/bed control
 Chaplaincy

Fig 7. Receiving hospital personnel alert checklist for
management of the patient with a suspected or
conﬁrmed ruptured aneurysm.

to a regional center, the adoption of a 30-30-30-minute
framework is recommended as a benchmark. The
initial period denotes the time from ﬁrst medical contact
with a patient suspected of having a ruptured aortic
aneurysm, including immediate management, to the
point when a decision is made to transfer the patient to a
regional center, if so required, or emergent in-house
vascular surgery evaluation is initiated. The second
period represents the time required for rapid transfer to a
regional center, if needed, and includes physicianphysician phone handoff, transfer of images (if available), and in-transit care. The ﬁnal period includes the
time from evaluation by the in-house or receiving
vascular surgery team to arterial access and placement
of an aortic occlusion balloon. Checklists, such as those
highlighting the essential tasks needed to facilitate
transfer, as well as those that assist in coordinating care
teams at the treating facility can be used to help meet
these goals (Figs 6 and 7). More important, and similar to
STEMI management,462,463 the establishment of systems
of care will be necessary. With an organized regional
transfer system, operative repair can be performed in
>95% of patients with a ruptured AAA, with 67%
survival.458 This requires effective coordination between
established sending and receiving facilities with

standardized communication, a reliable transport provider, patient management guidelines during transfer,
and a streamlined process for operative