 of Virginia Health System, Charlottesvilled; the Division of

SVS Document Oversight Committee (Ruth Bush, Chair, Marc Schermerhorn,

Vascular Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolise; the Di-

Vice-Chair, Keith Calligaro, Mark Davies, Yazan Duwayri, Mohammad Eslami,

vision of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of Texas Health Sci-

Alik Farber, Raul Guzman, Katherine McGinigle Gregory Landry, Mahmoud

ence Center at Houston - McGovern Medical School, Houstonf; the Division

Malas, Sheppard Mondy, John Rectenwald, William Robinson, Britt Tonnes-

of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Saint Louis University School of Medi-

sen, Greg Westin).

cine, St. Louisg; and the Evidence-Based Practice Center, Mayo Clinic,


SUMMARY OF THE GUIDELINES
Diagnostic evaluation
Recommendations.
1. In patients with abdominal pain, weight loss, and
food fear, we recommend an expedited workup to
exclude gastrointestinal malignancies and other potential causes. The expedited workup may include
an esophagogastroduodenoscopy, a colonoscopy, an
abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan and an
abdominal ultrasound. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
2. We recommend making a diagnosis of chronic
mesenteric ischemia (CMI) in patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and the presence of signiﬁcant
stenoses (>70%) within the celiac axis and superior
mesenteric artery (SMA). The diagnosis maybe also

made in patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and a signiﬁcant stenosis (>70%) in either the
celiac axis or SMA alone. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend using the mesenteric duplex ultrasound (DUS) examination as the preferred screening
test for mesenteric artery occlusive disease (MAOD).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We recommend using CT arteriography (CTA) as the
preferred deﬁnitive imaging test for MAOD unless unusual anatomic features obscure the anatomy such
that