 impossible due to marked
heterogeneity of the data and only one of the nine randomized trials was of high quality.
The 6-month results of the CLEVER trial were reported in 2012.74 The CLEVER trial randomized 111 patients with IC due to aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD) to
one of three treatments: optimal medical care, optimal
medical care plus supervised exercise, or optimal medical
care plus stent revascularization. The primary end point
was peak walking time on a graded treadmill test at
6 months. Secondary end points included assessment of
QoL and free-living step activity.
At 6 months, changes in peak walking time were
greatest with supervised exercise therapy combined
with optimal medical care compared with both optimal
medical care alone and stenting therapy combined with
optimal medical care. Stenting provided greater
improvement in peak walking time than optimal medical
care alone. Measures of improvement in QoL were both
greater for supervised exercise and stenting therapy
compared with optimal medical care alone, but improvement in QoL parameters was greater for stent revascularization than supervised exercise. A conceptually similar

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

14S Conte and Pomposelli et al

trial, Supervised Exercise Therapy or Immediate PTA for
Intermittent Claudication in patients with an Iliac Artery
Obstruction (SUPER Study), is planned for 15 Dutch
centers with enrollment of 400 patients (ClinicalTrials.
gov NCT01385774). Primary end points at 1 year are
maximal walking distance and measures of healthrelated QoL.116
The costs of interventional treatment appear to be
higher than those for supervised exercise therapy.117 Overall, at this point, there are no compelling data to favor
endovascular interventions over supervised exercise for
treatment of IC in patients who are candidates for both
forms of therapy.
Given its efﬁcacy as primary therapy, it is not surprising
that a number of small trials have suggested the beneﬁt of
exercise as an adjunct to percutaneous or open interventions performed for treatment of IC. A randomized trial
of 70 patients treated with a percutaneous intervention primarily