SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY PRACTICE GUIDELINES
Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice guidelines of thoracic
endovascular aortic repair for descending thoracic aortic aneurysms
Gilbert R. Upchurch Jr, MD,a Guillermo A. Escobar, MD,b Ali Azizzadeh, MD,c Adam W. Beck, MD,d
Mark F. Conrad, MD,e Jon S. Matsumura, MD,f Mohammad H. Murad, MD,g
R. Jason Perry, MD,h Michael J. Singh, MD,i Ravi K. Veeraswamy, MD,j and Grace J. Wang, MD,k Gainesville, Fla;
Atlanta, Ga; Los Angeles, Calif; Birmingham, Ala; Boston, Mass; Madison, Wisc; Rochester, Minn; Seattle, Wash; Pittsburgh
and Philadelphia, Pa; and Charleston, SC

ABSTRACT
Thoracic aortic diseases, including disease of the descending thoracic aorta (DTA), are signiﬁcant causes of death in the
United States. Open repair of the DTA is a physiologically impactful operation with relatively high rates of mortality,
paraplegia, and renal failure. Thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) has revolutionized treatment of the DTA and
has largely supplanted open repair because of lower morbidity and mortality. These Society for Vascular Surgery Practice
Guidelines are applicable to the use of TEVAR for descending thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) as well as for other rarer
pathologic processes of the DTA. Management of aortic dissections and traumatic injuries will be discussed in separate
Society for Vascular Surgery documents. In general, there is a lack of high-quality evidence across all TAA diseases,
highlighting the need for better comparative effectiveness research. Yet, large single-center experiences, administrative
databases, and meta-analyses have consistently reported beneﬁcial effects of TEVAR over open repair, especially in the
setting of rupture. Many of the strongest recommendations from this guideline focus on imaging before, during, or after
TEVAR and include the following:
In patients considered at high risk for symptomatic TAA or acute aortic syndrome, we recommend urgent imaging,
usually computed tomography angiography (CTA) because of its speed and ease of use for preoperative planning. Level
of recommendation