ising and recanalization, as shown in an
animal model.11 To achieve this goal, the external pressure should exceed the intravenous pressure. The intravenous pressure depends mainly on the body position,
corresponding to the height of the blood column between the point of measurement and the right side of
the heart. The pressure in leg veins is very low when
patients are lying horizontal. In this position, magnetic
resonance imaging has conﬁrmed that a compression
pressure of <10 mm Hg can narrow the great saphenous
vein (GSV).
Much higher pressures are needed to narrow veins of
the lower extremity when patients are in the sitting or
standing position. Observations using duplex ultrasound
and magnetic resonance imaging conﬁrm that in the
standing position, a compression pressure of >50 mm
Hg on the lower leg and of >30 to 40 mm Hg at thigh
level is required to occlude a vein. Using inelastic
compression material applied by expert hands, such
pressures are well tolerated and effective. This is the
most likely reason that recent studies comparing
different compression devices have recommended starting with compression bandages during the initial few
days after the procedure, with the goal of compressing
the recently treated veins. A limitation of these reports
is that the pressure of effective compression in these recommendations has not been reported.

Presently, ﬁve categories of compression therapy of the
extremities are available: compression bandages,
compression stockings, self-adjustable Velcro devices,
compression pumps, and hybrid devices. Compression
bandages and compression stockings are most
commonly used for short-term application after varicose
vein interventions.
Compression bandages are available in a wide spectrum of materials and weaves with different elastic
properties.4 Training for proper application is essential.4
To make bandaging easier, safer, and more effective,
most modern bandages combine different material
components. Because of friction between these components and the use of adhesive surfaces, multicomponent bandages provide nonyielding cuffs of high
stiffness around the leg, even when their individual
components are elastic. This stiffness of elastic textiles
results in an increase of sub-bandage pressure when patients stand up or when they walk.5 Examples are
“multilayer bandages” like Profore (Smith & Nephew,
Memphis