derived solely from comparisons with endarterectomy. The
Table summarizes the evidence comparing endarterectomy
and stenting using relative and absolute risk measures.

Values statement
Patients who place high value on avoiding surgical scar
or perioperative morbidity and mortality may opt for stenting, whereas stroke-averse patients may opt for carotid
endarterectomy. Guideline developers placed a relatively
higher value on avoiding the outcome of stroke and a
relatively lower value on statistically significant but perhaps
clinically trivial increases in perioperative complications.
Carotid artery stenting
Carotid artery stenting is performed under local anesthesia with mild or no sedation. Patients are placed on
clopidogrel and aspirin. Arterial access is achieved through
a retrograde femoral artery approach. Brachial, radial, or
direct CCA approaches have been used in some instances.
Noninvasive or angiographic arch assessment assists in
guiding the optimal approach to the CCA. Patients are
heparinized to an activated clotting time (ACT) of 250300 seconds. The CCA is selectively cannulated with a 5F
directional catheter over a 0.035-inch guidewire. Currently
available stents are deployed through a 6F sheath or an 8F
guiding catheter placed in the CCA within a few centimeters of the lesion. The use of one of several embolic protection devices (EPD) is recommended. It seems unlikely that
a randomized trial will be performed to determine their
neurologic efficacy. Distal filters or occlusive balloons have
been most commonly used and are approved in the United
States (US). Angioplasty is performed with a 3 to 4 mm
balloon to ensure safe passage of the stent. Atropine may be
given prior to angioplasty or selectively, to prevent vasovagal
complications. Current rapid-exchange stent platforms work
over the 0.014-inch wires of the EPDs. Self-expanding nitinol
stents are preferred; open and closed cell designs, as well as
tubular and tapered shapes have been approved for use in
the US. Reliable comparative studies are still required to
guide selection of one stent design over the other.
Post-stenting angioplasty is performed with a balloon
