?
4.1. We recommend against routine screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis in individuals without cerebrovascular symptoms or signiﬁcant
risk factors for carotid artery disease. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B
(moderate).
4B. Is screening for carotid stenosis recommended for
high-risk asymptomatic patients?
4.2. In selected asymptomatic patients who are at an
increased risk of carotid stenosis, we suggest
screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery
stenosis, especially if patients are willing to consider
carotid intervention if signiﬁcant stenosis is discovered. Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak);
quality of evidence: B (moderate).
4C. What imaging test is best for screening for carotid
stenosis in asymptomatic patients?
4.3. In asymptomatic patients who are undergoing
screening for carotid artery stenosis, we recommend
duplex ultrasound performed in an accredited
vascular laboratory as the imaging modality of
choice instead of CTA, MRA, or other imaging modalities. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: B (moderate).
5. What is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid artery stenosis and CAD?
5.1. For patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis of
50% to 99%, who require both CEA and CABG, we

6S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

suggest CEA before, or concomitant with, CABG to
potentially reduce the risk of stroke and stroke/death.
The sequencing of the intervention depends on the
clinical presentation and institutional experience.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality
of evidence: C (low).
5.2. In patients with severe (70%-99%) bilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis or severe asymptomatic stenosis and contralateral occlusion, we suggest CEA
before, or concomitant with, CABG. Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C
(low).
5.3. In patients requiring carotid intervention, staged or
