 a consistent suite of recommendations relevant to clinicians in all countries.
This guideline is based on three new systematic reviews. Using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment,
Development and Evaluation framework clinically relevant questions were formulated, and the literature was systematically reviewed. After assessing the certainty of the evidence, recommendations were formulated which were weighed
against the balance of beneﬁts and harms, patient values, feasibility, acceptability, equity, resources required, and when
available, costs.
Through this process ﬁve recommendations were developed for diagnosing PAD in a person with diabetes, with and
without a foot ulcer or gangrene. Five recommendations were developed for prognosis relating to estimating likelihood
of healing and amputation outcomes in a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene. Fifteen recommendations
were developed related to PAD treatment encompassing prioritisation of people for revascularisation, the choice of a
procedure and post-surgical care. In addition, the Writing Committee has highlighted key research questions where
current evidence is lacking.
The Writing Committee believes that following these recommendations will help healthcare professionals to provide
better care and will reduce the burden of diabetes related foot complications. (J Vasc Surg 2023;78:1101-31.)
Keywords: Chronic limb threatening ischaemia; Critical limb ischaemia; Diabetes mellitus; Diabetes related foot ulcer;
Endovascular intervention; Peripheral artery disease

From the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Adelaide and
Vascular and Endovascular Service, Royal Adelaide Hospital Adelaide, Aus-

Hospital, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finlandq; the and the Division of
Endocrinology, Dept. Internal Medicine, MUMC+, The Netherlands.r

traliaa; the School of Health Sciences, Western Sydney University, Campbell-

Additional material for this article may be found online at www.jvascsurg.org.

town, Australiab; the Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USAc; the

Correspondence: Robert Fitridge (e-mail: robert.ﬁtridge@adelaide.edu.au).

Bristol Centre for Surgical Research, University of Bristol, Bristol, UKd; the Asa-

Independent peer review and oversight has been provided by the members of

hikawa Medical University, Hokkaido, Japane; the Department of Vascular

the SVS Document Oversight Committee (Marc Schermerhorn, Chair, Britt

and Endovascular