id stenosis in low surgical risk
patients?

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

7S

Volume 75, Number 1S

2. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral (TF)-CAS for
low surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid
artery stenosis of >50%?
3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention in
patients presenting with acute stroke?
4. Screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic
patients
5. What is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid and coronary artery disease (CAD)?
However, because several other important topics could
not be covered in the clinical practice guidelines (eg,
optimal modern medical therapy and risk factor modiﬁcation, transcarotid artery reconstruction [TCAR]), these
topics were addressed in separate comprehensive implementation document, which will be used as a reference
for further details regarding the treatment of patients
with extracranial cerebrovascular disease.
Each member of the committee was assigned responsibility for compiling information pertinent to a speciﬁc
area of the document. These data were distributed to
all members for review, and each area was subsequently
discussed via conference calls. A consensus of the recommendation and level of evidence to support it was
reached. Each recommendation in this document represents the unanimous opinion of the writing group.
The committee used the GRADE (grades of recommendation assessment, development, and evaluation)
approach to rate the certainty of evidence (conﬁdence
in the estimates) and to grade the strength of the recommendations.18 This system, adopted by >100 other organizations, has been adapted by the SVS to express the
level of certainty as A, B, and C, consistent with high, moderate, and low certainty; respectively. The GRADE system
categorizes recommendations as strong (grade 1) or
weak, also called conditional (grade 2) according to the
certainty of the evidence, the balance between desirable
and undesirable effects, patient values and preferences,
and other decisional factors. Grade 1 recommendations
are meant to identify practices for which the beneﬁt
clearly outweighs the risk and can be adopted as a standard of care. Grade 2 recommendations are made when
the beneﬁts and risks are more closely matched or less
