. The revised VCSS is the best
currently available instrument to quantify improvement
and assess changes in the severity of CVD during follow-up
(short-term, ⬍1 year, midterm, 1-3 years, long term, ⬎3
years; Table IV).108 For research purposes, the complete
CEAP classification should be used in addition to evaluation of QOL after treatment to help to assess the patient’s
perception of the burden of the disease. A general QOL

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 53, Number 16S

instrument, such as the SF-36, and one of the diseasespecific QOL instruments (eg, VEINES, CIVIQ, Aberdeen) should both be used for this purpose.
Cosmetic results. Assessment of recurrent or residual
varicose veins continues to be a challenge, and there are
significant differences between physician assessments and
patient-reported results. Patient satisfaction is directly related to the disappearance of the treated unsightly varicose
veins. Photographing the treated areas is encouraged to
assess late results on varicose vein recurrence and the status
of skin changes. The Recurrent Varicose Veins After Surgery (REVAS) classification125 is a descriptive evaluation of
recurrent and residual varicosities based on the physician’s
assessment, and we suggest its use, although further modification of the assessment is warranted.

Gloviczki et al 17S

Table V. Definition of complications
Minor complications
No therapy, no consequence
Nominal therapy, no consequence; includes overnight
admission for observation only
Major complications
Requires therapy, minor hospitalization (⬍48 h)
Requires major therapy, unplanned increase in level of care,
prolonged hospitalization (⬎48 h)
Permanent adverse sequelae
Death
Adapted from Kundu et al.124 Used with permission.

TREATMENT
Indications

Surrogate outcomes
Surrogate outcomes assess specific technical questions
about a particular therapy. Surrogate outcomes may include patency of the ablated saphenous or perforating vein,
patency of a venous stent, or hemodynamic results after
interventions. These should be used with care when evaluating the clinical benefit of an intervention.124
Anatomic success. Patency of an