, have a mild to moderate neurologic deficit, and are
at risk for recurrent embolization and repeat stroke. Patients should be hemodynamically stable, with mild or
moderate functional deficit, relatively preserved mental status, and a favorable prognosis.247-252 Because these are
symptomatic patients, CEA would be recommended unless
the patients are at high risk for surgery due to medical
morbidity or anatomic features.
There are separate groups of patients in whom the
neurologic examination fluctuates under observation.
These patients can be classified as having unstable neurologic syndromes, a category that includes both stroke in
evolution and crescendo TIA. In these clinical syndromes,
urgent or emergent therapy is often considered to reverse
ischemia or salvage brain at risk.
2. Stroke in evolution (fluctuating neurologic deficits). This is a clinical syndrome that has been characterized by an evolving neurologic condition associated with an
acute precipitating neurologic event. In these situations,
the initial medical management of stroke, including antiplatelet agents, volume support, and blood pressure management, has not succeeded in stabilizing the patient’s
neurologic condition, which may “wax and wane” over the
early course of disease. Although patients may never return
to normal, their neurologic deficits will be mild to moderate in nature. These patients should have brain imaging to
exclude hemorrhage as an etiology and to identify ischemic
but viable brain. Carotid imaging by DUS, CTA, or MRA
should identify a tight lesion in the carotid bifurcation.
The presumption is that optimizing hemispheric blood
flow will improve perfusion to the ischemic hemisphere and
reduce the ultimate extent of neurologic deficit. This must
be balanced by concern that restoring blood flow may
result in hemorrhagic conversion of an infarction or a
reperfusion injury.
There are no large series of patients treated in a standard manner from which to draw definitive conclusions
regarding optimal therapy. In patients where hemorrhage
has been excluded by brain imaging, some surgeons use a
heparin infusion to try to stabilize these patients and prevent propagation of thrombus as part of their immediate

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

management. Only a few reports have included outcomes
of CEA in patients with