ol on patency. Koppensteiner et al241 compared the
use of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and ASA vs
ASA alone in patients undergoing popliteal angioplasty.
Improved patency was observed in patients treated with
LMWH for with CLI, but this effect was not observed in patients treated for claudication.241 Iida et al242 observed a
decrease in restenosis and reocclusion at 6, 12, and 24 months
in patients treated with cilostazol compared with ticlopidine,
similar to the beneﬁcial effect observed with cilostazol in
improving patency of coronary interventions and FP angioplasty in patients with end-stage renal failure.243

6. SURVEILLANCE AFTER REVASCULARIZATION
FOR IC
Arterial reconstructions performed for IC may be unilateral, bilateral, suprainguinal, infrainguinal, or on occasion, unilateral or bilateral combinations of suprainguinal
and infrainguinal reconstructions. Depending on the site
and extent of the arterial occlusive process, reconstructions
can be bypass operations with autogenous or prosthetic
arterial substitutes, open endarterectomy, or various combinations of catheter-based techniques. Whatever method
is selected for reconstruction, the goal is to improve patient
QoL by improving pain-free walking distance and maximal
walking distance while minimizing the need for additional
arterial reconstructive procedures.
Surveillance of vein grafts performed for IC. Autogenous vein is the preferred conduit for open infrainguinal

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

A

2

B

2

B

arterial reconstructions for treatment of claudication.
Approximately one-third of lower extremity vein grafts
will ultimately develop stenotic lesions that may threaten
patency. The large majority of such lesions develop within
the ﬁrst year of graft implantation; however, vein grafts
are never entirely free of the risk of developing stenosis.
The risk of developing vein graft stenosis appears greater
in operations performed for CLI, in operations performed
with smaller-caliber venous conduits, procedures using
nonsaphenous vein conduits, and in vein grafts with
anastomosis to more distal (tibial or pedal) arteries. Surveillance protocols