 in ⱕ5%
of patients and may be managed by short intermittent
inflation times.
Distal filters are deployed in the distal ICA and trap
debris released during angioplasty and stent deployment.
Like distal occlusion devices, they have the advantage of a
smaller diameter (6F), but the lesion must be initially
crossed in an unprotected fashion. These filters come in a
variety of configurations and pore sizes. Their efficacy is
related to the degree with which they can reliably achieve
complete apposition to the distal arterial wall. They have
the advantage that antegrade ICA flow can be maintained
throughout the procedure; however, the filter may become
completely occluded if large amounts of debris are released,
and debris may escape distally during filter recapture.
The choice of filter device is often related to individual
preference and familiarity. Some authors believe proximal
occlusion with flow reversal is preferable in nearly all circumstances; however, this technique has its greatest advantage in lesions with a high risk of embolization (markedly
irregular plaque, echolucent lesions, active symptoms) or in
those that may be difficult to cross due to tortuosity or
severe narrowing because protection is in place before the
lesion is manipulated. Use of a filter over proximal or distal
occlusion is preferred if there is a likelihood that interruption of antegrade ICA flow will not be tolerated. Distal
occlusion devices are preferred to filters when the distal
ICA anatomy suggests that compete apposition of filter to
the distal ICA wall may be difficult due to size or tortuosity.
Direct comparison of proximal occlusion with flow
reversal vs distal protection shows that proximal protection
with flow reversal results in the lowest embolic load165,185
However, no device can completely eliminate the risk of
embolization during CAS. The fact that no embolic protection is completely effective and that some emboli originate during cannulation of the aortic arch and the proximal
great vessels suggests that although improvements to embolization after CAS can be made, the problem cannot be
eliminated.
Studies using postoperative diffusion-weighted MRI
shown increased 17% incidence of MRI-identified infarcts
in patients undergoing CAS compared with CEA (adjusted
risk ratio, 5