002
RRC minimum of 5 cases as the primary operator. This
number reﬂects the increasing percentage of EVAR vs
open repair in the United States and speciﬁcally in
vascular training programs. These guidelines may
change with time to remain consistent with future
training.
The SVS endorses multidisciplinary guideline papers in
which the SVS has participated concerning TEVARs.5 Requirements for TEVARs include full basic endovascular
privileges with an experience of (1) 10 TEVARs within
the last 2 years or (2) less than this minimum for surgeons
with robust EVAR experience of at least 25 EVARs with 12
as the primary operator. The term full basic endovascular
privileges means that the operator is fully qualiﬁed as
deﬁned by multispecialty guidelines. On completion of
their training, vascular surgery trainees performing
TEVAR should be skilled in the perioperative management of aortic surgical patients and are expected to
have experience in performing adjunctive procedures
for TEVARs, including iliac conduits, femoral artery exposure, and debranching procedures such as carotidsubclavian bypasses. By deﬁnition, vascular surgeons
should have open thoracoabdominal aortic privileges,3
assuming their training encompassed these operations
(see earlier section, Deﬁnition of Vascular Surgery).
Multidisciplinary credentialing guidelines for CAS have
previously been published and endorsed by the SVS.6
These guidelines specify that diagnostic and stenting
procedures may both be counted if they are performed
during the same procedure. However, considering the

Endovascular Intervention Requirements. Open surgical training requirements were determined by the
RRC-S, but endovascular training requirements were
developed by the SVS in conjunction with other specialties performing these procedures. Vascular surgery
trainees are expected to acquire sufﬁcient training to
perform vascular catheter-based interventions, and previous guidelines have been published.3 Trainees are expected to submit their endovascular case load
experience as part of their complete operative log, as
veriﬁed by the program director, to the ACGME. Experience should be gained in performing diagnostic catheterizations among the various vascular beds, and at least
half should be selective catheterizations with 