 aorta. The size of the thoracic aorta
increases from the root to the diaphragm, with an
average size between 2 and 3 cm; it is approximately
10% smaller in women.6,30 Critically at risk during
TEVAR are the multiple spinal cord branches that may
be covered by the endograft after emerging as dorsal
branches from the intercostal arteries. These critical

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

61S

Volume 73, Number 1S

branches collateralize as the anterior spinal artery, which
then travels along the axis of the cord. Multiple vessels
supply blood ﬂow to the spinal cord, including the subclavian and vertebral arteries, intercostal arteries, supreme intercostal artery of Adamkiewicz, lumbar
arteries, and iliolumbar branches of the internal iliac
(hypogastric) arteries.31,32
There are anatomic aortic arch variations. These variations often are not manifested during childhood but
are recognized later in life. Many of these variations are
often corrected in childhood if they are incompatible
with a normal life span. The most common anatomic
variation is a “bovine” arch, in which one or more of the
great vessels arise from a common trunk. A second common variable, the aberrant right subclavian artery (arteria
lusoria), arises distal to the LSA and travels posterior to
the esophagus to the right arm. The path of these aberrant arteries can vary in their relation to the trachea and
esophagus. Other common variants include an aberrant
LSA, which often is seen in the setting of a right-sided
arch, and a thyroid ima branch, which arises directly
from the aortic arch and travels to the thyroid gland. Variations in the origin of the vertebral arteries are also common, with the most common variation involving a
vertebral artery arising directly from the aortic arch.
Classiﬁcations of the zones and arch. The aorta can
be divided into 11 zones, 6 of which are in the
thoracic aorta, which are useful for describing the
segment of the vessel and the potential branches
that may be covered or replaced during repair
(Fig 1).3 The utility