 CFAs, an approach using open surgical techniques to treat the CFA and stents to treat the iliac
or inﬂow vessels offers an alternative to traditional aortofemoral grafting.142,144,156 In these instances, the endarterectomy is extended proximally into the external iliac artery,
and stenting is done into the upper area of the endarterectomy to limit progression of disease in an intervening
segment. Surgical angioplasty of the femoral artery can be
performed with an eversion or standard patch technique.
Stenting of the iliac artery can usually be done from an
ipsilateral approach, with the sheath entry site well below
the upper extent of the endarterectomy to allow stents to
be placed through the full length of the diseased segment.
Initial technical success with this approach is reported
at 99% to 100% with 3-year to 5-year primary patency rates
reported at 90% and secondary patency rates of 98% to
100%.144 When compared with open aortofemoral reconstruction,166 this approach appears to have similar low mortality, with associated reductions in systemic morbidity,
infection risks, and a number of postsurgical complications
while providing similar patency rates, especially when
comparing secondary patency rates.
5B. Aortoiliac revascularization: Surgery
General considerations. Although endovascular intervention has become dominant in this vascular territory, surgery continues to have an important role in the current
treatment of patients with disabling claudication secondary
to AIOD. Relative indications for surgical vs endovascular
approaches will be discussed below but primarily relate to
disease distribution, prior interventions performed, and
overall patient risk. A range of surgical options is available,
depending on these and other technical considerations.
There are a number of key anatomic considerations that
directly inﬂuence the choice of an optimal surgical strategy in

Conte and Pomposelli et al 19S

AIOD. The nature and extent of aortic disease is preeminent. Axial imaging studies, typically CTA, are important
in the revascularization planning. The location and severity
of the occlusive lesions, as well as the presence of any aneurysmal changes, have direct implications. Non