viczki

June Supplement 2019

Long-term limb surveillance after any revascularization is
strongly recommended.
Fifth, the guidelines address the current lack of
evidence supporting nonrevascularization therapies,
including cell-based and gene therapies, spinal cord
stimulation, pneumatic compression, prostanoids, and
hyperbaric oxygen treatment.
Finally, since most patients with CLTI have tissue loss,
either from an ischemic ulcer or gangrene, many
patients are not fully ambulatory and are deconditioned.
They often require wound care, amputations, and rehabilitation after revascularization. Consequently, vascular
specialists who manage CLTI must have an understanding of wound care and amputations and either be able
to perform these procedures or have immediate access
to them.
The authors of this study, representing the Society for
Vascular Surgery, the European Society for Vascular Surgery, and the World Federation of Vascular Societies, are
to be congratulated for conducting a comprehensive
review of the literature, adhering to established principles of writing evidence-based recommendations, and
providing a document that should be used by all
vascular specialists who treat patients with CLTI, irrespective of their specialty. The authors and all sponsoring
societies need to be committed to revising and updating

the document as new procedures and information
become available, particularly after the multidisciplinary
prospective randomized trials that are in progress are
completed.

Peter F. Lawrence, MD
Peter Gloviczki, MD
Editors, Journal of Vascular Surgery Publications

REFERENCES
1. Conte MS, Bradbury AW, Kolh P, White JV, Dick F, Fitridge R,
et al. Global vascular guideline on the management of chronic
limb-threatening ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2019;69(Suppl):3S-125S.
2. Almasri J, Adusumalli J, Asi N, Lakis S, Alsawas M, Prokop LJ,
et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of revascularization outcomes of infrainguinal chronic limb-threatening
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:624-33.
3. Farber A, Rosenﬁeld K, Siami S, Strong S, Menard M. The BESTCLI trial is nearing