 of
death or stroke within 120 days of the index procedure
was higher for CAS. The primary event outcome and
ipsilateral postprocedural stroke at 5 years was also
higher for CAS, which lends support that, over the long
term, CEA has superior outcome than transfemoral CAS.
When managing acute stroke, the comparison of CEA
during the ﬁrst 48 hours to that between day 2 and day
14 did not reveal a statistically signiﬁcant difference on
outcomes during the ﬁrst 30 days. Although we did not
ﬁnd comparative evidence to support screening for carotid disease (ie, screening vs no screening), we were able
to stratify patients based on risk factors and provide estimates of screening yield. These estimates will be highly
relevant for shared decision-making. A single risk factor,
aside from peripheral artery disease, was associated with
low yield. Multiple risk factors greatly increase the yield of
screening and can justify a screening recommendation.
Evidence on the timing of interventions in patients with
combined carotid and coronary disease was sparse and
imprecise. Patients without carotid symptoms who had
the carotid intervention ﬁrst, compared with a combined
carotid intervention and CABG, had better outcomes.
Clinical implications. This systematic review/metaanalysis analyzes ﬁve important clinical questions/issues
in the management of extracranial carotid artery disease:
medical management vs CEA in asymptomatic patients,

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Hasan et al

105S

Volume 75, Number 1S

CEA vs CAS in symptomatic low risk surgical patients,
timing of intervention in stroke, screening high risk patients, and the optimal sequence for carotid intervention
in patients with combined carotid and coronary disease.
The recommendations are addressed in a separate
document, “Society for Vascular Surgery Clinical Practice
Guidelines for Management of Extracranial Cerebrovascular Disease.”112 Furthermore, a separate comprehensive
implementation document will address these issues in
further details and cover other important clinical issues
in extracranial cerebrovascular disease management.113
Strengths and limitations. The strength of this systematic review and meta-analyses includes following
rigorous procedures, such as selecting and appraising
studies by pairs of independent reviewers