 comparative estimates was low owing to the observational nature of the studies and the small sample sizes.
Although we were unable to evaluate statistically for
publication bias, this type of bias is likely present in a
body of evidence that consists of smaller series that do
not require registration. It is plausible that published
results are more favorable than unpublished ones.

DISCUSSION
Main ﬁndings. We conducted a systematic review and
meta-analysis to support the Society for Vascular Surgery guideline on the management of PAAs. A metaanalysis showed that, compared with the endovascular
approach, the open surgical approach was associated
with higher primary patency at 1 year, lower embolic and
thrombotic occlusions at 30 days, and lower reintervention rates, but more wound complications and longer
lengths of stay. There was no statistically signiﬁcant difference in secondary patency, mortality, or amputation
rate. Our ﬁndings were comparable with previous literature.43 However, in contrast with Leake et al,43 our results
do not favor OAR over EVAR in terms of primary patency
at 3 years because no statistically signiﬁcant difference
between the two modalities was found. Our review of the
natural history of PAAS is consistent with the existing
literature in demonstrating sparse data and low
certainty. Studies of PAAs natural history suggested that
thromboembolic
complications
and
amputation
develop at a mean observation time of 18 months and
they are frequent. At 5 years, approximately one-half of
the patients had complications.
Implications. These ﬁndings suggest that open PAA
repair may be more durable than endovascular repair,
albeit with a higher risk of complications and resource
use. These data need to be taken in context, because
they have not been validated by a well-powered randomized trial comparing these two treatment strategies.
As such, depending on patient comorbidities and
anatomic factors such as the presence of an optimal
conduit, both OAR and EVAR remain important tools in

124S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Beuschel et al

January Supplement 2022

the management of patients with PAAs. A systematic
review of the natural history data of asymptomatic PAAs
suggests that PAAs present a