ﬁculty
of the case. Data from the CAPTURE trial demonstrated a
higher 30-day stroke risk of 9.7% after the use of multiple
stents compared with 4.5% in patients with only one
stent.198 In a secondary analysis from the CREST study, lesions longer than 12.85 mm had a 3.4-fold higher risk of
stroke and death in CAS compared with CEA.175 In contrast,
a recent study by AbuRahma et al403 of 409 patients who
underwent CAS between 2004 and 2015 found no signiﬁcant difference in stroke and major adverse events in
regards to the stent length, number of stents or stent
diameter after CAS.403 However, these results may be
explained by the small number of strokes/adverse events.
In summary, proper patient selection, careful preprocedural planning, including performing adequate imaging
studies to evaluate patient’s anatomy and lesion characteristics and optimal medical management, are crucial
in improving CAS outcomes. Advances in protection devices, membrane- and mesh-covered stents, alternative
hybrid approach such as TCAR and reversal of ﬂow also
offer promising tools to improve outcomes.404
Summary and recommendations.
Pre-PTA and post-PTA.
1. Embolic protection should be established before
PTA/CAS
2. There is conﬂicting evidence on the risk of stroke
based on stent cell design.
3. Early studies of covered stents showed favorable results. Larger studies are needed.
4. An increased number of stents or longer lesions is
associated with a signiﬁcant increase in the risk of
stroke.

EXTERNAL CEA INDICATIONS AND TECHNIQUES
The external carotid artery is an integral part of the collateral circulation in the setting of a known ICA occlusion. As
such, referable neurologic symptoms may arise from
embolization of the proximal aspect of the occluded ICA
or from external carotid artery stenosis via the usual
thromboembolic mechanism.405,406 For many decades,
external CEA has been discussed in the setting of new or
recurrent neurologic or ocular symptoms given the aforementioned pathophys