 infection were reported.449 There are reported associations between postoperative wound hematoma
and early prosthetic patch infections.449 In one series,
80% of patients who presented with prosthetic patch
infection within 9 weeks of surgery had documented
wound complications in the perioperative period.450
Other patient-related factors that may increase risk of
patch infection include immunosuppression, and poor
general or dental hygiene. Patch infection has been reported after dental or other procedures, which may carry
a risk of transient bacteremia.451 As a result, some practitioners recommend routine antibiotic prophylaxis for
patients with prosthetic carotid patches before undergoing invasive or dental procedures.452
There seems to be a bimodal distribution of time to
presentation.449,451 Early patch infections may present
with typical wound cellulitis. The signs associated with
late patch infection may be more insidious, and can
include localized edema, facial swelling, the appearance
of a draining sinus tract, or a neck mass owing to inﬂammation or phlegmonous changes, or the formation of a
related pseudoaneurysm. The most commonly involved
organisms are Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus.449,451
Untreated prosthetic patch infections can result in
localized sepsis and ultimately in pseudoaneurysm formation with rupture of the patch and uncontrolled hemorrhage. Therefore, surgical management is imperative
when a documented prosthetic patch infection has
been diagnosed. Preoperative imaging studies should
include appropriate blood cultures and imaging, typically with duplex scanning and CTA. Presumptive antibiotics directed toward common organisms should be
started.
Surgical intervention should include removal of all
infected prosthetic material and establishing revascularization with autologous materials. Autologous vein patch
angioplasty or interposition vein graft reconstruction are
commonly used. Rarely, carotid artery ligation may be
required. Surgical management can be challenging,
and it is complicated by inﬂammation and scar tissue
related to the primary surgical procedure, as well as
localized sepsis and inﬂammatory changes. In some
cases where the soft tissue or skin is severely compromised, a rotational muscle or myocutaneous ﬂap should
be