 foam or commercial polidocanol endovenous microfoam.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.1.2. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the anterior
accessory or posterior accessory great saphenous
vein, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing venous
trunk
and
concomitant
phlebectomy
or
ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy of the

varicosities with physician-compounded foam or
commercial polidocanol endovenous microfoam.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.2.1. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the great or
small saphenous vein, we suggest ablation of the
reﬂuxing venous trunk and staged phlebectomy or
ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy of the varicosities only if anatomic or medical reasons present. We
suggest shared decision-making with the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.2.2. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the anterior accessory great saphenous vein or posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing venous trunk and staged phlebectomy or ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy
of the varicosities only if anatomic or medical reasons present. We suggest shared decision-making
with the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.3. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the major
superﬁcial venous trunks and associated varicosities
undergoing initial ablation alone, we recommend
that patients be followed up for $3 months to assess
the need for staged phlebectomy or ultrasoundguided sclerotherapy for persistent or recurrent
symptoms. Longer follow-up is recommended for
patients with recurrent symptoms and for patients
who participate in clinical trials.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good clinical practice
During the past two decades, the evaluation and minimally invasive endovenous management of varicose veins
and more advanced forms of lower extremity chronic
venous insuf