azol is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor that suppresses platelet aggregation and is also a direct vasodilator.
Patients can notice improvement in maximal and pain-free
walking distance in as short as 4 weeks.92 Other phosphodiesterase inhibitors have been noted to increase mortality in
patients with advanced heart failure; thus, cilostazol is contraindicated in patients with any level of heart failure. In addition to improving blood ﬂow to the limb, there is evidence
that cilostazol and pentoxifylline prevent lipid accumulation,
oxidation, and coagulation (ie, preventing further progression of atherosclerosis). However, epidemiologic evidence
suggests that many patients do not receive meaningful symptom relief with medical therapy alone. This is likely a result of
the limited ability of drugs to enhance muscle function or
limb blood ﬂow to the levels observed with therapies such
as exercise training or invasive revascularization.
The beneﬁts of cilostazol in the treatment of IC were
compared with those of pentoxifylline in a randomized
controlled trial (RCT) performed by Dawson et al.96 They
found that cilostazol therapy signiﬁcantly increased maximal
walking distance by 107 m (54% increase) compared with a
64-m improvement in the pentoxifylline group (30% increase). There was no difference in maximal walking distance
improvement between the pentoxifylline and placebo groups.
Regarding the durability of the effect, a recent pooled analysis
of seven RCTs demonstrated a signiﬁcant beneﬁt in maximal
walking distance compared with placebo at 6 months.92
The ACEI ramipril is used in the treatment of hypertension and may also have beneﬁcial effects in patients
with PAD and IC. In the Heart Outcomes Protection Evaluation study,97 treatment with ramipril reduced cardiovascular events and mortality even in patients without
hypertension. Therefore, ramipril should be considered as a
ﬁrst-line choice for hypertension treatment in PAD patients,
although it should be used with caution in the presence of
renal artery stenosis. In a recent double-blind, placebocontrolled RCT, ramipril (10 mg/d for 24 weeks) was
associated with signiﬁcant improvements in pain-free and
