 during CEA under locoregional anesthesia,
surgical management should proceed as appropriate
based upon the timing of the event as related to the
intraoperative course of the operation.
10. If a patient who is initially normal after CEA under
locoregional anesthesia with tolerance of carotid
clamping develops an ipsilateral focal neurologic
deﬁcit, immediate reexploration of the artery and
appropriate treatment is indicated, unless another
cause of stroke can be strongly considered.
11. For early acute stroke (1-2 days) after CEA, immediate
imaging (ultrasound examination or CTA) is indicated
to evaluate the endarterectomy site. When imaging
suggests thrombosis, is indeterminate, or not available, immediate operative reexploration is indicated.
12. For early acute stroke after CEA, if the endarterectomy
site is found to be patent without abnormalities, other
modalities such as a CT scan and/or arteriography
should be used to better identify the cause of the
stroke. If no deﬁnitive cause of stroke is found, anticoagulation is appropriate if a CT scan has excluded
intracranial hemorrhage.
Stroke after CAS
Stroke after stenting: the role of thrombectomy and
thrombolysis. The most feared complication after CAS is
stroke, which can be due to cerebral embolism or intracranial hemorrhage. In most clinical trials, stroke presentation occurred in the ﬁrst 24 hours following CAS. It is for
this reason that it is imperative to monitor all CAS

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

65S

Volume 75, Number 1S

patients in the intensive care setting postoperatively.
Stroke diagnosis is usually clinical. In patients with postoperative neurologic changes, carotid ultrasound examination, CTA, or MRI/MRA should be obtained
immediately to evaluate stent patency, and determine
if there is distal embolization or ICH. Management of
acute stroke is described in the Acute Stroke section of
these guidelines. However, acute stroke during or immediately
after
CAS
might
require
immediate
reintervention.
Distal embolization. If the embolic material is large
enough to cause MCA occlusion, catheter