 availability and
surgical expertise, are suitable candidates for either
forearm prosthetic access or upper arm access of any
type, we suggest that the surgeon offer both alternatives to patients (GRADE 2, very low-quality evidence).
4.1. Evidence
The systematic review by Murad et al14 identified only
2 studies that compared the autogenous upper arm access
with the prosthetic lower arm access (prosthetic looped
forearm access). One study showed that an autogenous brachial– basilic fistula in the upper arm had significantly better
primary and assisted-primary patency at 12 months compared
with the polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) group,74 and the
second study showed both accesses had similar patency at 12

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

12S Sidawy et al

Table II. Summary of evidence. Question: Should access surveillance vs watchful waiting be used for patients with
chronic hemodialysis?e
Quality assessment

Studies, No.

Design

Limitations

Access thrombosis (follow-up mean 18 months)
7
Randomized triala
Seriousb
Access abandonment (follow-up mean 18 months)
6
Randomized triala
Seriousb

Inconsistency

Indirectness

Imprecision

Other considerations

No serious
inconsistency

Seriousc

Seriousd

None

Seriouse

No serious
indirectness

Seriousd

None

CI, Confidence interval; RR, relative risk.
a
One study was not randomized.
b
Most trials lack description of allocation concealment and blinding of patients, clinicians, and outcome assessors. The first threatens prognostic balance at
baseline; the latter threatens maintenance of prognosis balance after randomization.
c
Access thrombosis is a surrogate outcome for access failure, which is a patient-important outcome associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
d
Confidence intervals are wide.
e
The proportion of heterogeneity that is not attributable to chance is ⬎50%.

and 24 months, although the autogenous access group had
fewer complications.75 Of note, subgroup analysis by Murad et al did not demonstrate superiority of upper arm
autogenous access compared with prosthetic accesses in
terms of complications.
4.