We suggest treatment of “pathologic” perforating veins that includes those
with outward flow of ⱖ500-ms duration, with a diameter of ⱖ3.5 mm,
located beneath healed or open venous ulcer (class C5-C6).
For treatment of “pathologic” perforating veins, we suggest subfascial
endoscopic perforating vein surgery, ultrasonographically guided
sclerotherapy, or thermal ablations.

formed superficial and perforator ablations in 11 limbs and
used air plethysmography, foot volumetry, and duplex
scanning to assess results. At a median follow-up of 66
months, expulsion fraction and half-refilling time had both
improved significantly in patients, with no ulcer recurrence.
Rhodes et al,95 from Mayo Clinic, used strain-gauge plethysmography to quantitate calf muscle pump function and
venous incompetence before and after SEPS. Significant
improvement was noted in both calf muscle pump function
and venous incompetence in 31 limbs studied ⱕ6 months
after SEPS. Saphenous stripping was done in addition to
SEPS in 24 of the 31 limbs. Although the seven limbs
undergoing SEPS alone had significant clinical benefits, the
hemodynamic improvements were not statistically significant. It is important to note also that Akesson et al371 failed
to show additional benefit in ambulatory venous pressure,
when perforator interruption was performed after saphenous vein ablation.
Percutaneous ablation of perforators. PAPS is a new
technique, and most publications had a small number of
patients with short follow-up, who were treated frequently
for mild disease (CEAP class C2-C3).357 Most data provided are on safety and surrogate end points such as perforating vein occlusions but less so on clinical and functional
end points. A systematic review of five recently published
cohort studies and seven unpublished case series by
O’Donnell356 found a mean occlusion rate of 80% and a
mean follow-up of ⬍2 months.
Ultrasonographically guided sclerotherapy is gaining
rapid acceptance because perforating veins can be accessed
easily with a small needle without much pain to the patient.
Masuda et al351 reported clinical