 lower proﬁle device (sheath sizes 16F-20F) still
had a 2% failure to implant secondary to access
issues.177
Depending on the size of the graft to be implanted, the
outer diameter of delivery systems can be larger than 24F
with some devices. One French is approximately 1/3 mm;
thus, a 24F outer diameter sheath is 8 mm in diameter. In
the setting of normal vessels with little tortuosity, the
vessel may stretch and allow delivery of a sheath that is
larger than the actual inner diameter of the vessel. However, increasing tortuosity or calciﬁcation can reduce the

effective inner diameter of the delivery vessel, leading to
the need for adjunctive methods of device delivery.
Several adjunctive measures can facilitate access in patients with small iliac vessels, including the use of more
proximal arteries as well as open or endovascular conduits.
Femoral access. Traditional open femoral exposure
during TEVAR involves exposing the common femoral
artery at the level of the inguinal ligament and establishing sites for proximal and distal control. Unlike endovascular AAA repair, in which medium- to large-diameter
sheaths are placed in both groins, TEVAR can usually be
accomplished through one femoral artery exposure with
the other reserved for diagnostic imaging through a 5F or
6F percutaneously placed sheath, if needed. When open
femoral artery exposure is performed, a transverse or
oblique skin incision is favored over the vertical approach
in the groin as it is associated with fewer wound complications. Wound complication rates (excluding hematomas) after endovascular repair with a vertical incision
are as high as 18%,178 whereas several studies with oblique incisions have reported virtually no infectious wound
complications.179,180
Percutaneous access of the common femoral artery for
TEVAR is also a common approach to access and is
increasing in frequency as surgeons become more
comfortable with it.181 A discussion of the pitfalls and
merits of individual closure devices is beyond the scope
of this document. However, several techniques have
been described for identiﬁcation of the femoral artery,
