 with complicated C1 disorder. The most severe
complication is bleeding, but in rare cases, pain and
burning due to telangiectasias or reticular veins are also
indications for DUS to evaluate and treat associated superﬁcial venous incompetence. Patients with mild symptoms and certainly those with cosmetic telangiectasias
with intermittent itching or other mild symptoms do
not need Duplex evaluation that could ultimately lead
to unnecessary ablation of superﬁcial truncal veins.
Evidence. Studies by Ruckly et al64 suggest that there are
some patients with symptomatic advanced C1 disorder,
with telangiectasias and reticular veins located medially
along the GSV, who are candidates for saphenous ablation.
Evaluation with DUS is recommended by several groups
before sclerotherapy in patients with symptomatic telangiectasias and reticular veins.56,65,66 Engelhorn et al67
examined 269 limbs of women with telangiectasias
(CEAP C1 class). GSV reﬂux was detected in 44%, but it was
segmental in 73% and only 4% had SFJ reﬂux. The authors
propose further research on the management of the GSV in
these patients. Interestingly, in this study 78% of the limbs
with C1 disease were symptomatic. Somjen et al65 recommended that incompetent reticular veins, present in 80%
to 90% of these cases, should also be treated together with
sclerotherapy of the telangiectasias. However, these larger
reticular veins (1-3 mm) are always located above the superﬁcial fascia, so they can be well-seen with magniﬁcation,
or easily detected during the ultrasound guided liquid or
FS. This study, therefore, does not support routine preprocedure DUS for patients with C1 disorder.
1.5.3. In symptomatic patients with varicose veins
(CEAP Class C2), the deep venous system should be
routinely evaluated for infrainguinal obstruction or
valvular incompetence.

Rationale. Deep venous pathology, including reﬂux and
obstruction, may affect outcomes and complications
following interventions for superﬁcial venous incompetence. Evaluation of the