. Because of the ease of other interventions
or a misguided assumption, there is room to reinvestigate
this assumption by comparing repair of deep venous insufﬁciency vs outﬂow obstruction interventions in patients
who have both conditions.
Ancillary. Ancillary measures to improve ulcer healing
include adequate nutrition to provide sufﬁcient vitamins,
minerals, and protein to support the growth of granulation
tissue. Whereas pentoxifylline and micronized puriﬁed
ﬂavonoid fraction, both in combination with compression
therapy, have demonstrated a beneﬁcial effect on ulcer
healing, these medications are not widely used. Better understanding of the pathophysiologic mechanism of the
VLU may help develop other novel systemic or local treatment. Physiotherapy is a useful ancillary measure to VLU
healing as it improves calf muscle pump function and

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

reduces edema, but it is also not readily available. There is
moderate-quality evidence that increased physical activity,
improved mobility, and foot exercises decrease VLU
recurrence, but more standardization is required.
Primary Prevention. Cost-effectiveness of VLU prevention is difﬁcult to rigorously prove owing to the
requirement for large patient numbers in these trials and
the heterogeneous nature of CVI. Adequate compression
in a compliant patient with C1-C4 disease and the use of
evidence-based therapies for treatment with prevention of
DVT recurrence should go a long way toward decreasing
the incidence of VLU. Although much information is
available to patients online and by other sources, dissemination of preventive measures to front-line physicians and
advanced practice providers is critical for reaching the most
patients possible at risk of VLU.
As for all clinical classes of CVI, there is a knowledge
gap as to whether adequate compression and skin care
or, alternatively, surgical intervention for superﬁcial venous
incompetence prevents progression to another clinical disease level, speciﬁcally from C4 to C6.

REFERENCES
1. Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines, Institute of Medicine.
Guidelines for clinical practice: From development to use. Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 1992.
2. Ruckley CV. Socio-economic impact of chronic venous insufﬁciency
and