 outcome of death, stroke, and nonfatal myocardial infarction was very imprecise (RR0.52; 95% CI 0.20 to 1.33) due to
the small number of patients (323) and events (18). All the
events were in the SAPHIRE trial whereas Brooks et al did not

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 2

contribute to the pooled estimate because it was a zero-event
trial, ie, none of the patients in either study arm had a death,
stroke, or myocardial infarction. Hence, the committee is
unable to determine whether stenting is noninferior to endarterectomy or best medical management. One possible exception to this recommendation is the asymptomatic patient
with low medical risk, compelling carotid disease, and highrisk anatomy (as defined above). For these patients the committee suggests that practitioners consider carotid artery stenting as a potential alternative to medical management or
carotid endarterectomy if the carotid artery stenosis is ⱖ80%.
Values statement
In making this recommendation, guideline developers
placed a relatively high value on avoiding the potential
downsides of an invasive procedure in the clinical context of
low risk patients with unclear risk-to-benefit ratio. In these
patients, medical therapy may provide sufficient reduction
in the risk of events at a favorable risk-to-benefit ratio.
Furthermore, in medically high-risk patients it seems likely
that in the absence of symptoms, medical therapy will be
safer than either surgical or endovascular treatments.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Using the best available evidence, we have made recommendations for the management of commonly encountered carotid disease patients. We have applied the GRADE
system to these recommendations in order to indicate the
strength of the data supporting our guidelines and the
strength of our convictions in offering these guidelines.
Factors other than data (eg, experience, values, surgeon, or
patient preferences) often play a role in decision making,
especially when supporting data are imperfect. The
strength of a recommendation may not be solely a function
of the strength of the supporting data. To summarize our
recommendations in order of their strength and the quality
of supporting data, we offer the following:
Strong Recommendations ⫹ High Quality Evidence:
a