 with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, a foot ulcer, and
clinical ﬁndings of ischaemia, a revascularisation procedure should
be considered. Findings of ischaemia include absent pulses, monophasic or absent pedal Doppler waveforms, ankle pressure < 100
mmHg or toe pressure < 60 mmHg. Consult a vascular specialist
unless major amputation is considered medically urgent.
Best Practice Statement

13. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, a foot ulcer, and
severe ischaemia i.e., an ankle brachial index < 0.4, ankle pressure <
50 mmHg, toe pressure < 30 mmHg or transcutaneous oxygen
pressure < 30 mmHg or monophasic or absent pedal Doppler
waveforms, urgently consult a vascular specialist regarding possible
revascularisation.
Best Practice Statement

14. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot ulcer
with infection or gangrene involving any portion of the foot, urgently
consult a vascular specialist in order to determine the timing of a
drainage procedure and a revascularisation procedure.
Best Practice Statement

15. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer, when the wound deteriorates or fails to signiﬁcantly improve (e.g., a less than 50% reduction
in wound area within four weeks) despite appropriate infection and
glucose control, wound care, and ofﬂoading, reassess the vascular
status and consult with a vascular specialist regarding possible
revascularisation.
Best Practice Statement

16. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot ulcer
or gangrene, avoid revascularisation when the riskebeneﬁt ratio for
the probability of success of the intervention is clearly unfavourable.
(Continued on next page)

1104

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

Continued.
Chapter

Recommendation

Grade

Certainty of
evidence

Conditional

Moderate

17. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene who has an adequate single segment
saphenous vein in whom infrainguinal revascularisation is
indicated and who is suitable for either approach