 judged not to be clinically meaningful.
While thrombotic complications after isolated endovenous ablation are uncommon, the incidence in patients
undergoing open procedures such as HL&S and/or phlebectomy may be as high as 6.25%.39,244 Concomitant
phlebectomy of tributaries has been identiﬁed as an independent risk factor for VTE development.242 These patients may not identify VTE symptoms due to pain and
swelling associated with phlebectomy and many VTE
are asymptomatic.244 Thus, the role, or lack thereof, of
surveillance duplex in this patient population remains
to be deﬁned.

While we recommend against routine ultrasound
screening in asymptomatic, average-risk patients, clinicians should have a low threshold for obtaining such
studies in patients with postoperative symptoms suggestive of DVT and should consider such studies in
selected high-risk patients. The recommendation for
DUS in patients with postprocedure symptoms suggestive of DVT (1A) is based on a meta-analysis performed
by the American Society of Hematology in support of
their guidelines for evaluation of patients with a high
pretest probability of DVT.245 As discussed below
(guideline 11.2.1.), consistently deﬁning the risk factors
constituting a “high-risk” patient is more difﬁcult and requires clinical judgment. With respect to ablation technique, some randomized trials206,246 and metaanalyses234 have suggested a higher thrombotic risk
with FS, although such reports are not consistent across
studies.243 The clinical relevance of these ultrasound-

Table XLII. Evidence to decision framework: Treatment of isolated thrombosis of varicose tributaries or limited involvement
of the great saphenous vein (GSV)
Domain

Evidence/Panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable effects of the strategy?

Surgical stripping reduces pain and
discomfort

Probably
beneﬁcial

How substantial are the undesirable anticipated effects?

No reduction in VTE

Low

Do the desirable effects outweigh the undesirable effects?

Probably in select circumstances

Probably yes

What is the overall certainty of the evidence of effects?

Low with no RCTs

Low

How large are the resource requirements associated with the
intervention?

Moderate

Low