 bioﬁlms and the multiple species that are typically
cultured from these wounds add another layer of
complexity. Finally, the changing nature of bacterial
behavior over time may render studies performed as
recently as 5 to 10 years ago irrelevant.
Developing technology, which has allowed more
detailed descriptions of the bacteria found existing in the

O’Donnell et al 27S

wound bed, employs methodology such as polymerase
chain reaction analysis. These techniques may allow more
speciﬁc tailored therapy for individual wounds. These
methods, however, have not yet been established to
improve outcomes in the care of VLUs. In this setting,
deﬁnitive guidelines are difﬁcult to establish, and treatment
must be individualized on the basis of local bacterial epidemiology and patient conditions.
Guideline 4.9: Management of Limb Cellulitis
We recommend that cellulitis (inﬂammation and
infection of the skin and subcutaneous tissue) surrounding the venous leg ulcer be treated with systemic
gram-positive antibiotics. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - B]
Limb cellulitis is characterized by inﬂammation and
infection of the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and lymphatic
ﬂuid and is most commonly due to streptococci or
staphylococci, but it will occasionally include other species. There are numerous studies in the medical literature evaluating various systemic antibiotic regimens for
the treatment of lower extremity cellulitis,236-238 also
supported by a Cochrane review,239 with recommendation for initial treatment with antibiotics directed at
gram-positive bacteria, reserving broader coverage for
unresponsiveness.

Guideline 4.10: Wound Colonization and Bacterial
Bioﬁlms
We suggest against systemic antimicrobial treatment of venous leg ulcer colonization or bioﬁlm
without clinical evidence of infection. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
The data available concerning the treatment of bacterial colonization of VLUs are insufﬁcient and contradictory. Sibbald et al found that high bacterial counts in
VLUs were associated with delayed healing.240 Improved
healing was associated with reduction in bacterial counts.
Davies et al suggested that bacterial density was predictive
of nonhe