 tortuous iliac arteries, heavy calciﬁcation, and
small vessel size relative to the chosen device.
An open surgical iliac conduit is usually performed with
a retroperitoneal exposure of the common iliac artery or
distal aorta through an oblique incision in the lower
quadrant of the abdomen. The choice of common iliac
artery vs the aorta should be based on CTA ﬁndings,
such as calciﬁcation and artery size. A 10-mm prosthetic
conduit is best used because it will facilitate delivery of
all currently available stent graft systems. The anastomosis can be performed in an end-to-side or end-toend fashion. The conduit can be tunneled to the groin
or brought subcutaneously through the abdomen so
that it creates an angle that allows straight delivery. At
the completion of the procedure, the conduit can be
oversewn near the anastomosis. Alternatively, the distal
end can be anastomosed to the common femoral artery
to bypass an occluded or injured external iliac artery
while also providing an easy conduit in the future if
further interventions are necessary.191
Direct puncture of the iliac artery and the aorta has also
been described with avoidance of the need for a conduit.
Most often, these arteriotomies are closed primarily,
especially in the absence of extensive atherosclerotic
occlusive disease.192
Recommendation 33: We recommend the use of iliac
conduits or direct iliac or aortic punctures for TEVAR delivery to facilitate access in patients with small (relative to
the chosen device), tortuous, or calciﬁed iliac vessels. The
decision to perform a conduit should be made in the
preoperative setting, when possible. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Endoconduit. In an effort to avoid the potential
increased morbidity and operative time associated with
a retroperitoneal exposure of the common iliac vessels or
distal aorta, the use of angioplasty and stenting as an
endoconduit has been reported.192 In general, a 10-mm
self-expanding covered stent graft is placed, but others
have advocated