 renal insufficiency, best medical therapy may be preferable to CAS or
CEA. CEA or CAS may be considered among symptomatic
high-risk patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis,
but the effectiveness over medical therapy is not well
established.
There are conflicting data on the influence of contralateral occlusion on the outcome of CEA or CAS. NASCET
reported that a contralateral occlusion increased the risk of
stroke after CEA from 5.8% to approximately 14%.207
However, most reports regarding contralateral occlusion
do not bear this observation out, and a meta-analysis of the
literature suggests a much more modest increase, from
2.4% to 3.7%.208,209 This was statistically significant, but
the results remain within the AHA recommended guidelines. Several single-center studies have shown excellent
results in patients with contralateral carotid occlusion.210,211 A possible explanation for this discrepancy is an

e16 Ricotta et al

inadequate sample size in the single-center studies. Alternatively, a more consistent technique of intraoperative
management in single-center reports, including, algorithms
for maintaining intraoperative cerebral perfusion, are more
likely to occur in single-center experience than in multicentered studies.
CEA is associated with a lower stroke risk than CAS in
patients aged ⬎80 years.152,161,162 A combined death,
stroke, and MI rate of ⱖ10% has been seen in octogenarians
treated with CAS.152,161 In the CREST study, CAS was
associated with an increased stroke risk in patients aged
⬎70 years9 and appeared to have a benefit compared with
CEA in patients aged ⬍70 years, although no other studies
have reported this association to date.
Because there is a demonstrable incidence of cranial
nerve injury after CEA that is absent after CAS, patients
with a history of a contralateral vocal cord paralysis are at
increased risk with CEA vs CAS; thus, CAS would be
preferred in these patients.
B. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with carotid
artery stenosis of 60% or more
1.