Most of the patients in the ischemia 1 and 2 blocks of 16
combinations suffer from “situational ischemia.” As wound
complexity and infection severity increase (a shift down and
to the right in each box of 16), the likelihood that revascularization will be required increases. In the ischemia 3 category, small wounds without infection may not always
require vascular intervention, but such an intervention
may speed healing. Again, shifts down and to the right
within this box increase the odds that vascular intervention
will be required; it likely will be mandatory for W 2 and
W 3 patients, especially in the presence of infection.
Since this is a new, updated system, we emphasize that
these consensus-based clinical stages will require rigorous
validation in large datasets that are generalizable to the

broad heterogeneous chronic limb ischemia population.
Such validation could be done as part of a registry, and
plans are underway to begin this process within the SVS
Vascular Quality Initiative.72 We anticipate that within
2 years, we will be able to conﬁrm or re-assign patients
by WIfI classiﬁcation to the appropriate limb threat clinical
stage based on such registry data. It is expected that validated limb threat stages will be found to correlate with
amputation risk (Supplementary Fig 1, online only).
APPLICATION OF WIfI STRATIFICATION
The following examples demonstrate the application of
WIfI in the clinical setting.
Example 1. A patient with ischemic rest pain, an ABI
of 0.30, no wounds, and no signs of infection would be
classiﬁed as Wound 0 Ischemia 3 foot Infection 0 or
WIfI 030. The consensus clinical stage is 2 (low) with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

230 Mills et al

Table V. Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) reclassiﬁcation after debridement and control of infection (if
required)
The complete WIfI system is used to classify the patient at the time of initial presentation. In some patients with severe infection, the patient
might require urgent drainage and debridement prior to objective documentation of foot perfusion. In such cases, the