 risk,
we suggest carotid artery stenting as a potential alternative to carotid endarterectomy (GRADE 2 recommendation, low
quality evidence). In asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis (>60%), we recommend carotid
endarterectomy plus medical management as long as the perioperative risk is low (GRADE 1 recommendation, high
quality evidence). We recommend against carotid artery stenting for asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe
(>60%) carotid artery stenosis (GRADE 1 recommendation, low quality evidence). A possible exception includes patients
with >80% carotid artery stenosis and high anatomic risk for carotid endarterectomy. ( J Vasc Surg 2008;48:480-6.)

The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) undertook the
task of developing clinical practice guidelines to aid over
2500 of its member surgeons and their patients in the
process of decision-making. Realizing that some areas in
vascular surgery are controversial either because of lack of
evidence or because of the presence of inconsistent and
imprecise evidence, the SVS designated selected topics as
high priority areas in need of clinical practice guidelines.
The SVS appointed committees with expertise in the questions at hand and drew on systematic reviews of the availFrom the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark,a
New England Medical Center, Boston,b Maimonides Medical Center,
Brooklyn,c Mayo Clinic, Rochester,d University of Pennsylvania School of
Medicine, Philadelphia,e Jobst Vascular Center, Toledo,f Mayo Clinic
College of Medicine, Rochester,g Northwestern University Feinberg
School of Medicine, Chicago,h The Iowa Clinic, Des Moines,i Texas A &
M University Health Science Center, College Station,j University of
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark,k and Johns Hopkins
Hospital, Baltimore.l
*Deceased.
Competition of interest: none.
Reprint requests: Enrico Ascher, MD, Maimonides Medical Center, 4802 10th
Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11219 (e-mail: eascher@maimonidesmed.org).
0741-5214/$34.00
Copyright © 2008 by The Society for Vascular Surgery