ic syndrome [abstract]. Haemostasis 1994;24:158a.

disease.207-214 Evidence supports inclusion of venous
diseaseespeciﬁc QOL more than generic QOL assessment
to be complementary to the more objective provider-based
venous assessment tools. For all patients with VLU, QOL
assessment should be performed with a venous diseasee
speciﬁc instrument to evaluate patient-reported outcome
and severity of CVD.

Guideline 3.13: Venous Procedural Outcome
Assessment
We recommend venous procedural outcome assessment including reporting of anatomic success, venous
hemodynamic success, procedure-related minor and
major complications, and impact on venous leg ulcer
healing. [BEST PRACTICE]
For all patients with VLUs who require venous endovascular or operative intervention, outcome assessment
should be performed to determine success of the procedure
over time. Several surrogate outcome markers have been
described for venous procedures, including anatomic
parameters, venous hemodynamic success, procedurerelated complications, and impact on VLU healing.215
Use of recommended reporting standards and participation
in a venous-based registry can facilitate tracking of venous
procedure outcomes.216 Clinical outcome assessment associated with wound and procedural treatments allows
further determination of comparative effectiveness for
improved VLU healing as mandated by the Institute of
Medicine of the National Academies (http://www.iom.
edu/) and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA).217 In addition, standardized venous outcome
assessment will translate to improved quality care measures
as regulated by quality care organizations, such as the

National Quality Forum (http://www.qualityforum.
org/), the Surgical Care Improvement Project (http://
qualitynet.org/), the Joint Commission (http://www.
jointcommission.org/), and the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality (http://www.ahrq.gov), and
increased potential opportunities for National Institutes
of Health funding for research on venous ulcer prevention
and treatment.3
WOUND CARE
A broad array of products and treatment strategies are
currently marketed for the purpose of managing chronic
wounds related to venous hypertension. It is challenging
to determine which of these therapies have meaningful evidence that shows improvement in patient