atomic snuffbox. The cephalic vein and
radial artery are identified through a single longitudinal
incision overlying the palpable posterior branch of the
radial artery pulse. The artery is found in the base of the
snuffbox between the tendons of the extensor pollicis longus and brevis.
Autogenous radial– cephalic direct wrist access (BresciaCimino-Appel).
This autogenous access is performed between the end of
the cephalic vein and the radial artery in the wrist. If the
arterial pulse and the vein are close to each other, the
procedure is performed through one longitudinal or curvilinear incision. If these vessels are far from each other, the
artery and the vein are dissected through two separate
longitudinal incisions and the vein is passed through a
tunnel to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous radial– cephalic forearm transposition. This
autogenous access is performed between the end of the
cephalic vein and the radial artery in the forearm. The
cephalic vein is identified at the wrist and mobilized to the
antecubital fossa. The radial artery may be identified within
the distal portion of this incision or, if located far away, a
second longitudinal incision may be made overlying the
palpable radial artery pulse. The cephalic vein is tunneled
superficially and laterally to the radial artery to perform the
anastomosis. This operation is used in obese patients with
good inflow at the wrist and a normal cephalic vein in the

20S Sidawy et al

forearm, which is too deep to allow for successful cannulation if kept in its location and a direct autogenous access is
performed.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– cephalic forearm looped transposition. This autogenous access is performed between the end of the cephalic vein and the
brachial artery in the antecubital fossa. The cephalic vein is
identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa
through a single incision or multiple incisions. The brachial
or proximal radial artery is identified within the proximal
portion of this incision or, if located far away, a second
