
is generally benign, durable beneﬁt at low risk is required
to justify invasive vascular treatment. The anatomic spectrum of disease in IC is broad, and has a major impact
on both technical success and durability of vascular interventions. In selecting a revascularization strategy for
patients with IC, the expected durability in the circumstance at hand should be carefully considered. We suggest
that a minimal effectiveness threshold for invasive therapy
in IC be a >50% likelihood of sustained clinical improvement for at least 2 years. Freedom from hemodynamically
signiﬁcant restenosis in the treated limb is considered a prerequisite for this goal.
Because anatomic durability is generally inferior for
infrainguinal vs aortoiliac procedures and for bilateral vs unilateral infrainguinal interventions, most experienced clinicians have a higher treatment threshold for IC in these
settings. In bilateral disease, treating physicians should
consider the probability of overall efﬁcacy as the product of
expected outcomes in each limb, because functional gains
are unlikely if success is achieved and maintained in one
limb only. Similarly, as new data are published demonstrating
the expected patency outcomes of evolving technologies in
various anatomic and clinical settings, this suggested benchmark should be carefully considered before applying such
strategies to everyday practice in claudicant patients.
Patient-centered outcomes data are sorely needed to better
deﬁne functional gains, symptom relief, and patient perceptions on the relative trade-offs (eg, durability of improvement
vs need for repeat interventions) to better enable shared decision making in the invasive treatment of IC. The concept
of a minimal clinically important difference has been developed for other chronic diseases to increase the relevance of
study end points to patients and is needed in this ﬁeld.128
Anatomic selection factors: Imaging
Once the decision has been made to consider invasive
treatment, patients should undergo imaging studies to
determine the arterial anatomy, the extent of disease,
and whether they are best treated with EVT or open surgical therapy. This enables a more comprehensive discussion about risks, beneﬁts, and durability trade-offs for

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

various treatment options. Currently used imaging modalities include CTA,129,130 MRA,131 duplex ultrasound
imaging,132 and catheter angiography. Although all modalities