 names used to describe
these vessels (greater, long, lesser) should be abandoned.
The GSV originates from the medial superficial veins of
the dorsum of the foot and ascends in front of the medial
malleolus along the medial border of the tibia, next to
the saphenous nerve (Fig 1). There are posterior and
anterior accessory saphenous veins in the calf and the
thigh. The saphenofemoral junction (SFJ) is the confluence of superficial inguinal veins, comprising the GSV
and the superficial circumflex iliac, superficial epigastric,
and external pudendal veins. The GSV in the thigh lies in
the saphenous subcompartment of the superficial compartment, between the saphenous fascia and the deep
fascia.
The SSV is the most important posterior superficial vein
of the leg (Fig 2). It originates from the lateral side of the
foot and drains blood into the popliteal vein, joining it
usually just proximal to the knee crease. The intersaphenous vein (vein of Giacomini), which runs in the posterior
thigh, connects the SSV with the GSV.65

Fig 1. Medial superficial and perforating veins of the lower limb.
(Used with permission of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.)

Deep veins
Deep veins accompany the main arteries of the limb and
pelvis. The deep veins of the calf (anterior, posterior tibial,
and peroneal veins) are paired structures, and the popliteal
and femoral veins may also be paired. The gastrocnemius
and soleal veins are important deep tributaries. The old
term superficial femoral vein has been replaced by the new
term femoral vein.52 The femoral vein connects the popliteal to the common femoral vein.
The pelvic veins include the external, internal, and
common iliac veins, which drain into the inferior vena cava
(IVC). Large gonadal veins drain into the IVC on the right
and the left renal vein on the left.
Perforating veins
Perforating veins connect the superficial to the deep
venous system (Fig 1). They pass through the deep fascia
that separates the superficial compartment from the deep