ﬁc guideline is tempered by the quality of evidence supporting that recommendation. The SVS/AVF
Joint Clinical Practice Guidelines Committee has reviewed
the grading of recommendations within each subcommittee and as an overall group with an eye toward a
critical assessment. Overall, the evidence level for venous
ulcer management is mostly of moderate strength, and as
a consequence, most recommendations as a whole achieve
lower grades, Grade 2B (18.6%) and Grade 2C (53.3%); in
some instances, the recommendations may not be graded
and are designated Best Practice (10.7%). Parenthetically
it should be noted that the current American College of
Chest Physicians guidelines for antithrombotic therapy
and prevention of thrombosis contain no Grade 1A recommendations.522 This observation points to the need for
more well-done randomized controlled studies on the
management of VLUs. Whereas the current VLU guidelines attempt to cover the state of evidence as it exists
today, as more evidence comes to fruition, updates and
modiﬁcations will be required on an ongoing basis, so
that these VLU guidelines become “living documents.”

O’Donnell et al 45S

The treatment of VLU currently is hampered by a siloed
approach, that is, just focusing on ulcer healing or ulcer
recurrence rather than on the continuum of care. For
expressing and assessing cost/resource utilization as well
as quality of outcomes, how long the skin remains in an
ulcer-free state (ulcer-free interval), as expressed by the
percentage of the follow-up period that the skin is ulcer
free, is a more valuable metric.
Key points from the current guidelines and areas of
evidence needed to assist with future directions for VLU
management are summarized as follows.
Venous Ulcer Deﬁnition and Pathophysiology
A classiﬁcation system of VLU into meaningful groups
in which comparative studies with different treatments can
be carried out is needed. This is necessary and cogent
because there is such diversity of disease entities under
the broad term venous ulcer. Pure venous ulcer: Reﬂux
into ulcer region by any route superﬁcial or perforator or
deep without identiﬁable additional disease. Mixed venous
ulcer: Reﬂux or obstruction creating venous