 was recorded. Guideline developers used the terms “we recommend” to denote strong
recommendations, whereas for weak recommendations,
they used the less deﬁnitive wording “we suggest.”
Following the methodology of previous AVF Guidelines,
when evidence was lacking or there were no comparable
alternatives to a recommendation, the recommendation
was labeled [BEST PRACTICE]. These grades were
reviewed and approved by the entire writing group and
served as the basis for grading of the recommendations.
The entire Guidelines Committee has reviewed and
approved the ﬁnal document.

The main advantage of this type of bandage is that it
provides even higher sub-bandage pressures in the
upright body position and when the patient is walking,
whereas the pressure is tolerably low during rest.7 The
effects of the intermittent pressure peaks during
walking are comparable to those of intermittent
pneumatic compression pumps, for which there is
more evidence concerning hemodynamic efﬁcacy published than for bandages.5 The main disadvantage of
such bandages is that there is a risk of applying them
too loosely or that the pressure starts to drop immediately after application because of edema removal, after
which the bandage falls loose.
Compression stockings are the most popular form of
compression devices. To facilitate self-donning by the
patient over the heels, they must be adequately elastic.
Their main disadvantage is that they produce less pressure increases compared with compression bandages
when standing up and when walking.7 They are therefore less effective with respect to their hemodynamic
effects. However, compression stockings have been
shown to be effective in reducing edema and pain vs
no stockings8,9 and seem to have anti-inﬂammatory
properties.10

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR COMPRESSION
THERAPY

A major goal of compression after procedures on superﬁcial veins is to maintain occlusion of the treated vein to
prevent bruising and recanalization, as shown in an
animal model.11 To achieve this goal, the external pressure should exceed the intravenous pressure. The intravenous pressure depends mainly on the body position,
corresponding to the height of the blood column between the point of measurement and the right side of
the heart. The pressure in leg veins is very low when
patients are lying horizontal. In this position, magnetic
resonance imaging has conﬁrmed that a compression
