 balloon
placed, especially if general anesthesia is required,
because of the likelihood of vasodilation, hypotension,
and cardiovascular collapse. Permissive hypotension to
maintain a systolic blood pressure of 80 mm Hg limits
volume overload and appears sufﬁcient to maintain
critical end-organ perfusion.563 The use of local anesthesia for EVAR, most often, does not provide sufﬁcient
pain control for the patient experiencing signiﬁcant
abdominal or back pain.
Antibiotic prophylaxis. A Cochrane review conﬁrmed
that prophylactic antibiotics, administered before incision, reduce the risk of wound infection and early graft
infection in arterial reconstructive surgery.564 However,
continuing antibiotics for >24 hours postoperatively was
without added beneﬁt. There was no advantage among
ﬁrst- or second-generation cephalosporins, penicillins
with lactamase inhibitors, aminoglycosides, or vancomycin. We also recommend that any potential sources of
dental sepsis be eliminated at least 2 weeks before implantation of an aortic prosthesis.
We recommend intravenous administration of a ﬁrst-generation
cephalosporin or, in the event of penicillin allergy, vancomycin
within 30 minutes before OSR or EVAR. Prophylactic
antibiotics should be continued for no more than 24 hours.
Level of recommendation

1 (Strong)

Quality of evidence

A (High)

We recommend that any potential sources of dental sepsis be
eliminated at least 2 weeks before implantation of an aortic
prosthesis.
Level of recommendation

Good Practice Statement

Quality of evidence

Ungraded

Intraoperative ﬂuid resuscitation and blood conservation. Allogeneic blood transfusion remains associated
with immunologic and infectious risks. Although preoperative autologous blood donation avoids disease transmission and transfusion reaction as well as stimulates
erythropoiesis, limitations include limited availability of
blood donation, increased expense, and potential waste
of nonused blood.565 Intraoperative cell salvage assists
in blood conservation, has been recommended if large
blood loss is anticipated, and may be helpful where
concerns of the safety of banked blood exist.5