PP $ 40 mmHg increases the pre-test probability of
healing by up to 30%.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. The presence of PAD constitutes a substantially increased risk of failure to heal and major lower

limb amputation for people with a diabetes related
foot ulcer or gangrene. Bedside testing results are an integral component of determining the severity of
ischaemia and, to that end, to determine the need for,
and urgency of, further investigations. Non-invasive
bedside tests including AP, ABI, and TP should be performed in a person with a DFU or gangrene to guide
further management as they can help to predict the
chance of healing and or major amputation. TcPO2 and
skin perfusion pressure (SPP) give additional information
on healing potential and are useful for measuring
perfusion following forefoot amputations when TP are no
longer possible. However, in the authors’ opinion these
are secondary tests due to greater expense and less
availability of the equipment and the time and expertise
required to apply them.
Assessment of the pedal arterial Doppler waveforms
combined with measurement of the AP and subsequent
calculation of the ABI, are usually the ﬁrst steps in the
assessment of PAD. Although relevant for its diagnosis,
as discussed in the Rationales of Recommendations 1
and 2, it was not possible to identify sufﬁcient data on
the capacity for Doppler arterial waveform analysis to
predict wound healing in populations with DFU.5 Two
low quality studies were identiﬁed which concluded
that abnormal or absent Doppler waveforms were associated with a small (15%) increase in the likelihood of major amputation,65,66 further limiting its use. Similarly,
there are currently insufﬁcient data to support the use
of TBI to predict healing or amputation outcomes; however, TP (as a component of TBI) has been more widely
investigated and is therefore included in the
recommendation.
The predictive capacity of APs and ABI for wound healing was inconsistent in the 15 studies included in the systematic review.5 Thresholds for AP and ABI which were
associated with increased probability of healing could
not be identiﬁed; however, a very low ankle pressure
(e.g., < 50