156) undergoing aortomesenteric bypass for CMI in the American College of Surgeon’s
National Surgical Quality Improvement Program Participant Use File during 2005 to 2009. They reported that
patients undergoing bypass with vein were more likely
to require a bowel resection and that there was a higher

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

107S

Volume 73, Number 1S

mortality rate (16% vs 5%; P ¼ .039), although there were
no other differences in the other perioperative complications. These ﬁndings likely reﬂect the fact that the vein
conduits were used for patients with AMI rather than
speciﬁc concerns about the quality of the conduit itself.
The retrograde bypass may be a little more straightforward and less time consuming than the antegrade
bypass and, thus, potentially more suitable for patients
with advanced comorbidities. Interestingly, Scali et al152
compared the outcomes after antegrade and retrograde
bypass for AMI and reported that there was no difference
in the perioperative outcomes, although the antegrade
bypass was associated with a lower reintervention rate.
Furthermore, the exposure of the infrarenal aorta and
iliac vessels is more familiar than the supraceliac aorta
for most vascular surgeons.
The retrograde iliosuperior mesenteric bypass originating from the proximal common iliac artery has been
criticized because of the potential for the bypass to
kink. Indeed, the bypass passes from a caudal to cephalad and posterior to anterior course. The potential for
kinking may be decreased by the use of a ringed bypass
graft and by performing the distal anastomosis to the
SMA in an end-to-end fashion. The retrograde bypass
can also be tunneled deep (or around) the left renal artery to optimize the course of the graft with a technique
referred to as the French Bypass.153,154 Alternatively,
Huerta et al155 have described a technique (direct open
retrograde revascularization) in which the bypass is
tunneled directly through the small bowel mesentery.
A pedicle of omentum can be mobil