 stripping; IPV, incompetent perforator vein; NBCA, n-butyl cyanoacrylate; RFA, radiofrequency ablation; RCT,
randomized controlled trial; RR, relative risk/rate ratio for adverse events; SEPS, subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery; SFJ, saphenofemoral
junction; SFL/S, saphenofemoral ligation and stripping; SMD, standardized mean difference; UGFS, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy.

Farah et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

1161

Volume 10, Number 5

Fig. PRISMAﬂow diagram.

selection, index test, reference standard, and ﬂow and
timing. Certainty in estimates for key outcomes was
evaluated using the GRADE approach20-22 (Table II).
Statistical analysis. The relative risk (RR) was extracted
or calculated for binary outcomes. We calculated standardized mean difference (SMD) for continuous results
when studies used different measures for the same effect (eg, pain scale). When studies used the same
outcome measure, we used the original scale and
expressed results as a weighted mean difference. Rate
ratios (ie, the ratio of the incidence rate of events within
a given time between the intervention and the comparison) were calculated for AEs. The DerSimonian and
Laird random effects method was used to combine effect sizes. We evaluated heterogeneity between studies
using I2 indicator. Analyses were based on the intentionto-treat principle for RCTs or the number of patients
initially assigned to the interventions at the start of the
study for observational studies.

Subgroup and sensitivity analysis. A prespeciﬁed
subgroup analyses were conducted based on patient characteristics (eg, age, sex), intervention techniques, concomitant interventions (eg, phlebectomy, sclerotherapy), and
publication timeline (ie, before and after 2016) for thermal
techniques. We also conducted sensitivity analyses in
which we excluded high risk of bias studies. We were
unable to evaluate clinical class of venous disease (CEAP
classiﬁcation-200423 vs CEAP classiﬁcation-202016) owing
to lack of comparative