 to ASA was studied in 851
patients in the Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic Acid In Bypass
Surgery for Peripheral Arterial Disease Trial (CASPAR).237
This placebo-controlled RCT found no difference in outcome
between patients receiving ASA vs ASA plus clopidogrel undergoing lower extremity bypass. However, the subset of

patients undergoing prosthetic bypass (30%), demonstrated
improved patency and limb salvage when receiving ASA combined with clopidogrel compared with ASA alone.
Anticoagulation
Several trials have studied the effect of ASA compared
with warfarin on patency in lower extremity bypass. The prospective randomized Dutch Bypass Oral Anticoagulants or
ASA (BOA) trial85 randomized 2690 patients undergoing
lower extremity bypass to coumarin (target international
normalized ratio of 3-4.5) vs ASA (81 mg/d). Overall, there
was no difference in patency at 12 months in the two cohorts;
however, a subgroup analysis demonstrated superior patency
for patients undergoing vein bypass receiving coumarin
compared with those receiving ASA alone at 12 and 24 months
(OR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.46-0.76). This effect was not seen in
those patients undergoing prosthetic bypass grafts, where
patency was identical in those receiving ASA and coumarin.
Twice as many bleeding complications were observed in patients receiving coumarin as in those receiving ASA.
Despite the ﬁndings of the BOA trial, most vascular
surgeons in the United States choose not to routinely anticoagulate patients undergoing lower extremity vein bypass.
However, anticoagulant therapy may be beneﬁcial in speciﬁc circumstances where conditions are less than optimal.
In a small trial by Sarac et al,238 56 patients undergoing
high-risk vein bypass (deﬁned as poor-quality conduit or
runoff) were randomized to ASA plus warfarin vs ASA
alone. The patients receiving ASA plus warfarin had a
signiﬁcantly improved patency and limb salvage at 3 years.
The ischemic consequences of graft thrombosis may be
ameliorated by the use of anticoagulants after bypass