ASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

palmar arch and is particularly important when an autogenous AV access at the wrist is planned. Bilateral extremity
blood pressures should be recorded and found to be equal.
Sites of previous arterial catheters or arterial donations for
coronary artery bypass grafting should be identified; the
radial artery harvested for coronary revascularization is
identified by the characteristic longitudinal incision over
the anterior aspect of the forearm. Further investigations
are indicated if the history or physical findings suggest an
arterial inflow abnormality.
Venous examination. The venous system should be
inspected with and without a venous pressure tourniquet in
place. Outflow veins should be uninterrupted and distensible. The presence of enlarged superficial veins on the chest
wall or arm edema may suggest central venous stenosis or
occlusion. Enlarged collateral veins are pathognomonic of a
segmental venous occlusion.52 Arm diameter in obese patients may limit access selection or dictate the need for primary
or staged vein elevation or a transposition procedure.
Noninvasive ultrasound imaging: a critical supplement
to the clinical examination. Ultrasound venous mapping is
of critical importance in these patients, not only for identifying preferred autogenous access sites but also for evaluating the depth of venous structures.53 Utilization of autogenous veins for construction of AV access is enhanced
by the identification of clinically “buried” veins as well as
unexpected venous occlusions or stenoses.47 Some obese
individuals have deep forearm veins that are quite adequate
for dialysis if transposed or superficialized. Further, if distal
arterial inflow is inadequate and the venous system is found
adequate by ultrasound imaging, functional access can often be established by using proximal arterial inflow and
establishing retrograde forearm autogenous AV access
flow.46 Although adequate arterial inflow can usually be
determined by a clinical examination, arterial abnormalities
such as the high brachial bifurcation are relatively common,
easily identified by ultrasound examination, and may substantially affect preoperative planning; this is especially relevant when considering a forearm prosthetic access site. An
inadequate arterial lumen may also adversely affect outcome and is easily determined by combining the arterial
ultrasound examination with the venous survey.
Arterial