1.39; 95% CI, 0.91-2.11),
although there was substantial heterogeneity between studies. The authors concluded that there is currently insufficient evidence to allow a meaningful comparison of the
effectiveness of this treatment with that of other minimally
invasive therapies or surgery.
Surgery vs endothermal ablations vs foam sclerotherapy. A systematic review and meta-analysis of RFA,
EVLA, and foam sclerotherapy for primary varicose veins
was reported by Luebke and Brunkwall9 in 2008. Results
were compared with those achieved with conventional ligation and vein stripping. This study included 29 EVLA
studies, 32 RFA studies, and 22 foam sclerotherapy trials.
RFA was inferior to EVLA and foam sclerotherapy in
saphenous occlusion rate, phlebitis, DVT, and paresthesias.
EVLA had the highest occlusion rate and least recurrence
compared with RFA and foam. Foam sclerotherapy of
varicose veins was associated with a higher recurrence rate
in patients with saphenofemoral incompetence compared
with the rates after EVLA or RFA. This study concluded
that EVLA, RFA, and foam sclerotherapy seem to be safe
and effective, with good short-term and midterm results,
but large, high-quality, prospective RCTs comparing endovenous techniques and endovenous techniques with surgery are needed before considering endovenous techniques
as the standard treatment of varicose veins.
In a subsequent meta-analysis of EVLA results, van den
Bos et al248 compared RFA, foam sclerotherapy, and
HL/S. They analyzed results of 64 clinical trials that included treatment of 12,320 limbs with an average follow-up of 32.2 months. The estimated pooled success rate
at 3 years was highest after EVLA (94%), followed by RFA
(84%), HL/S (78%), and foam sclerotherapy (77%). EVLA

was significantly superior to other treatment modalities in
abolition of the saphenous reflux. Foam therapy and RFA
were equally effective as surgery. The meta-analysis concluded that endovenous thermal ablations or foam sclerotherapy is at