oral artery and vein. Injury to the
femoral vein or artery during high ligation of the saphenous
vein is, fortunately, very rare. Consequences can be disastrous, because most are not recognized immediately,208
and a delay in treatment may result in massive DVT or even
loss of the limb from the severe arterial injury.
Thromboembolic complications. DVT and pulmonary
embolism (PE) are rare but occasionally serious complications of superficial vein surgery. In a prospective study, Van
Rij209 performed duplex scanning in 377 patients before
surgery and then at 2 to 4 weeks and at 6 to 12 months after
surgery. Acute DVT was detected in 20 patients (5.3%).
Eight were symptomatic and no PE was observed. Although this series suggests an incidence of DVT that is
higher than previously believed, this complication had minimal short-term or long-term clinical significance. Of the

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May Supplement 2011

20 DVTs, 18 were confined to calf veins, and half of the
DVTs had resolved without deep venous reflux at 1 year.
Others reported an incidence of 0.5% for DVT and 0.16%
for PE.201
Conventional stripping vs cryostripping. An RCT by
Menyhei et al179 randomized 160 patients to high ligation,
division, and cryostripping vs conventional stripping. No
differences in QOL measures were noted by the SF-36
questionnaire at 6 months between the two groups. Bruising was more frequent after conventional stripping (P ⫽
.01), but there was no difference in pain score or complications. Two patients from the conventional stripping
group and six from the cryostripping group were excluded
from analysis because of incomplete stripping. Experience
with this technique in the United States is limited, and at
this time no recommendation is made.
Results of superficial vein surgery on ulcer healing
and recurrence. High quality evidence indicates that superficial vein surgery reduces ulcer recurrence. The
ESCHAR study,156,157 as discussed earlier, randomized
500 patients with leg ulcers, who had isolated superficial
ven