SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY DOCUMENT
Editors’ Choice
Guidelines for hospital privileges in vascular surgery and
endovascular interventions: Recommendations of the
Society for Vascular Surgery
Keith D. Calligaro, MD,a Kwame S. Amankwah, MD,b Marcus D’Ayala, MD,c O. William Brown, MD,d
Paul Steven Collins, MD,e Mohammad H. Eslami, MD, MPH,f Krishna M. Jain, MD,g Daniel S. Kassavin, MD,h
Brandon Propper, MD,i Timur P. Sarac, MD,j William P. Shutze, MD,k and Thomas H. Webb, MD,l Philadelphia
and Pittsburgh, Pa; Syracuse and Brooklyn, NY; Royal Oak and Kalamazoo, Mich; St. Petersburg, Fla; Norwalk and
Columbus, Ohio; San Antonio and Plano, Tex; and Indianapolis, Ind

ABSTRACT

The Hospital Privileges Practice Guideline Writing Group of the Society for Vascular Surgery is making the following ﬁve
recommendations concerning guidelines for hospital privileges for vascular surgery and endovascular therapy. Advanced
endovascular procedures are currently entrenched in the everyday practice of specialized vascular interventionalists,
including vascular surgeons, but open vascular surgery remains uniquely essential to the specialty. First, we endorse the
Residency Review Committee for Surgery recommendations regarding open and endovascular cases during vascular
residency and fellowship training. Second, applicants for new hospital privileges wishing to perform vascular surgery
should have completed an Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education-accredited vascular surgery residency
or fellowship or American Osteopathic Association-accredited training program before 2020 and should obtain American Board of Surgery certiﬁcation in vascular surgery or American Osteopathic Association certiﬁcation within 7 years of
completion of their training. Third, we recommend that applicants for renewal of hospital privileges in vascular surgery
include physicians who are board certiﬁed in vascular surgery, general surgery, or cardiothoracic surgery. These physicians
with an established practice in vascular surgery should participate in Maintenance of Certiﬁcation programs as
established by the American Board of Surgery and maintain their respective board certiﬁcation. Fourth, we provide
recommendations concerning guidelines for endovascular procedures for vascular surgeons and other vascular interventionalists who are applying for new or renewed hospital privileges. All physicians performing open or endovascular
procedures should track outcomes using nationally validated registries, ideally by the Vascular Quality Initiative. Fifth, we
endorse the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission recommendations for noninvasive vascular laboratory
interpretations and examinations to become a Registered Physician in Vascular Interpretation, which is included in the
requirements for board eligibility in vascular surgery, but recommend that only physicians with demonstrated clinical
experience in the diagnosis and management of vascular disease be allowed to interpret these studies. (J Vasc Surg
2018;67:1337-44.)

The following recommendations of the Society for
Vascular Surgery (SVS) are meant to provide guidelines
for granting hospital privileges to perform vascular

interventions including open surgical and endovascular
procedures of blood vessels in the body, excluding intracardiac and intracranial vessels. Of note, these

From the Section of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, Pennsylvania

Committee: Thomas L. Forbes, MD (Chair), Ali AbuRahma, MD, Neal

Hospital, Philadelphiaa; the Division of Vascular Surgery, Upstate Medical Uni-

Barshes, MD, Ruth Bush, MD, Ronald L. Dalman, MD, Hans Henning Eck-

versity, Syracuseb; the New York Presbyterian Brooklyn Methodist Hospital,

stein, MD, Anil Hingorani, MD, Eva Rzucidlo, MD, Marc Schermerhorn, MD.

Brooklync; the Division of Vascular Surgery, William Beaumont Hospital, Royal

The Document Oversight Committee approved the ﬁnal version, and the

Oakd; the St. Anthony’s Hospital, St. Petersburge; the Division of Vascular Sur-

Guidelines were endorsed as an ofﬁcial SVS document by the Executive

gery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburghf; the Western Mich-

Committee: R. Clement Darling III, MD (Chair), Ali F. AbuRahma, MD,

igan University, Kalamazoog; the Department of Vascular Surgery, Cleveland

Michael Belkin, MD, Ronald M. Fairman, MD, Kim J. Hodgson, MD, Michel

Clinic, Norwalkh; the Division of Vascular Surgery, San Antonio Military Medi-

S. Makaroun, MD, Samuel R. Money, MD, and William Shutze, MD. A pub-

cal Center, San Antonioi; the Aortic Center, The Ohio State University of Med-

lic consultation period followed, with these guidelines posted on the SVS

icine, Columbusj; The Heart Hospital Baylor, Planok; and Vascular Surgery,

website (www.vascular.org) and sent electronically to all members. Revi-

Franciscan Health, Indianapolis.l

sions were made by the writing group in response to comments

Author conﬂict of interest: K.M.J. is an owner of National Ofﬁce Endovascular
Labs LLC. T.P.S. holds an ofﬁcer position with TMT Systems and Peritec Biosciences. W.P.S. has been a consultant and lecturer for Medtronic.

nia Hospital, 700 Spruce St, Ste 101, Philadelphia, PA 19106 (e-mail:

These guidelines were reviewed and are endorsed by the Association of Program Directors in Vascular Surgery: William D. Jordan, MD (President), Jeffrey

the

Society

for

Vascular

Surgery

kcalligaro@aol.com).
0741-5214
Copyright Ó 2018 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.

Jim, MD (Education Committee Chair).
Independent peer review and oversight have been provided by members
of

received.
Correspondence: Keith D. Calligaro, MD, Section of Vascular Surgery, Pennsylva-

(SVS)

Document

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2018.02.008

Oversight

1337

1338

Calligaro et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
May 2018

interventions also apply to the thoracic aorta (exclusive of
intracardiac vessels). These guidelines are intended to be
inclusive, applying to individuals completing Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME)accredited vascular surgery training programs as well as
individuals who have completed training in other
catheter-based procedures, such as interventional cardiology and interventional radiology. We encourage hospitals to consider these guidelines for all specialties when
granting endovascular privileges.
Although the ultimate determination of who should and
should not practice vascular surgery and endovascular
therapy in a given hospital remains its own responsibility,
these SVS guidelines provide a reference for credentialing
committees regardless of the specialty of the applicant.
The most recent guidelines for credentialing and hospital
privileges in vascular surgery were published in 2008.1
The specialty of vascular surgery has evolved with the creation of primary board certiﬁcation such that general surgery board certiﬁcation2 is no longer a prerequisite for
new vascular training paradigms.
Establishing minimum annual case volumes for every
open and endovascular procedure for vascular surgeons
or other interventionalists in clinical practice as a measure of competency is beyond the scope of the SVS at
this time, and other specialties agree with this position.2
Such guidelines for every arterial tree cannot be
defended with existing supporting data and would be
so subject to opinion that they would not be relevant.
The SVS recommends that hospitals take into account
board certiﬁcation and Maintenance of Certiﬁcation
(MOC), irrespective of specialty, along with guidelines
established by interventionalists practicing at a given
hospital during the appointment process. The specialists
performing both open surgical and endovascular procedures should also perform ongoing evaluation of outcomes of these interventions.

DEFINITION OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Vascular surgery is the specialty that deals with the
diagnosis and management of disorders of the arterial,
venous, and lymphatic systems, exclusive of intracardiac and intracranial vessels but including the thoracic
aorta. We wish to emphasize that a fully trained
“vascular surgeon” should be considered a vascular
specialist who performs traditional open surgery but
who also performs endovascular interventions and is
competent to treat vascular diseases with noninterventional means. A fully trained vascular surgeon must
have advanced knowledge and experience in the
following six areas:
1. Pathophysiology and natural history: Understanding of
the pathophysiology and the natural history of vascular
disorders to include atherosclerosis, intimal hyperplasia, nonatherosclerotic arterial disease, vasculitides,

thrombophilia and thrombotic disorders, venous and
lymphatic diseases, and vascular end-organ disorders.
2. Clinical management: Clinical evaluation of vascular
patients, including history, physical examination, and
medical management including pharmacotherapy
and risk factor reduction.
3. Vascular diagnostic testing and imaging: Noninvasive
and invasive diagnostic testing of vascular disease,
including but not limited to duplex ultrasound scanning, Doppler testing, plethysmography, magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography angiography,
contrast angiography and venography, intravascular
ultrasound, and other new and evolving imaging tools.
4. Open vascular surgery: Indications for and techniques
of open surgical treatment, including management of
their complications, for vascular disorders involving
arteries, veins, and lymphatic vessels throughout the
body, exclusive of intrinsic cardiac and intracerebral
vessels. These arteries include the carotid artery and
its extracranial branches, vertebral arteries, upper
extremity arteries, intrathoracic arch branches, aortic
arch and descending thoracic aorta, abdominal aorta,
visceral and renal arteries, and pelvic and lower
extremity arteries. Venous2 and lymphatic disorders
are also included. The SVS conﬁrms that vascular surgeons are the only specialists trained to treat patients
with pathologic processes affecting all of these vessels
with open surgical treatment while also being the
only specialists that can effectively treat complications of said operations with appropriate endovascular and open surgical intervention.1
5. Endovascular therapy: Indications for and techniques
of endovascular interventions, including management of their complications, for vascular disorders
involving all vessels listed for open surgery. Although
vascular surgeons may not be the only specialists
that can treat patients with these lesions with endovascular treatment, they are the only specialists that
can offer the comprehensive and combined elements
of medical management, endovascular therapy, or
open surgery as effective initial treatment for all of
these disorders affecting all of the vessels listed.
They are also the only specialists able to effectively
treat complications of endovascular intervention
with appropriate endovascular and open surgical
intervention.
6. Critical care management: Management of patients
including preoperative and postoperative evaluation
and treatment of vascular patients in the intensive
care setting. This management includes understanding indications and techniques for the insertion of
peripheral artery, central venous, and pulmonary
artery catheters for hemodynamic monitoring.
In summary, it is the position of the SVS that vascular
surgeons are the only specialists trained to treat patients
with all of the deﬁned vascular disorders and vascular
trees with both open and endovascular treatments while
also being able to effectively treat complications with
appropriate endovascular or open surgical methods.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Calligaro et al

1339

Volume 67, Number 5

TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION IN VASCULAR
SURGERY
Currently there are three pathways approved by the
ACGME for training in vascular surgery that lead to board
certiﬁcation by the American Board of Surgery (ABS), a
member board of the American Board of Medical
Specialties.
1. Traditional pathway. This traditional training paradigm,
which requires 7 years to complete, is referred to as a
5 þ 2 pathway. This pathway remains the most common training paradigm, with 77 vascular surgery
training programs in the Electronic Residency Application Service of the Association of American Medical
Colleges participating in this traditional pathway
(www.aamc.org). This pathway requires completion of
a 5-year general surgery training program at an
ACGME-approved site with a minimum experience of
850 total operative procedures during this training.
Completion of general surgery training is followed by
2 years of vascular surgery training at an ACGMEapproved site, which can be at the same institution
or a different one, with an operative experience requirement of at least 250 major vascular reconstructions. On
completing this traditional 5 þ 2 pathway, the trainee is
eligible for board certiﬁcation in both general surgery
and vascular surgery by the ABS. Although the ABS
initially required board certiﬁcation in general surgery
before board certiﬁcation in vascular surgery, an ABS
policy enacted in 2012 now requires that the candidate
have only an approved application for the general surgery qualifying examination for eligibility for vascular
surgery boards (www.absurgery.org).
2. Integrated pathway. The integrated pathway, also
referred to as a 0 þ 5 pathway, is geared to medical
students who have decided on a career in vascular
surgery, participate in the main National Resident
Matching Program during medical school,3 and
match into vascular surgery training to begin immediately after graduation from medical school. The integrated pathway was ﬁrst approved in 2006 by the
ABS and eliminated the need for board certiﬁcation
in general surgery before board certiﬁcation in
vascular surgery by establishment of a primary board
certiﬁcate in vascular surgery. Two years are devoted
to core surgical training and 3 years to vascular surgery training, all of which must be completed at the
same institution.3 The ACGME requires that residents
in an integrated program complete a minimum of
500 total operative procedures and 250 major
vascular reconstructions. On completion of the 5year training program, these trainees are eligible for
board certiﬁcation by the ABS only in vascular surgery.
This integrated pathway has become increasingly
popular among applicants, and there are presently
50 such training programs participating with the
Electronic Residency Application Service. Certain
institutions offer both 5 þ 2 and 0 þ 5 pathways.
3. Early specialization pathway. This pathway requires
4 years of general surgery residency and 2 years of

vascular surgery residency at the same institution
and enables the trainees to obtain ABS certiﬁcation
in both general surgery and vascular surgery. Only
three programs currently offer an early specialization
pathway. Trainees must complete a minimum of
850 total operative procedures and 250 major
vascular reconstructions during these 6 years.

The ABS requires that all training programs in vascular
surgery must be accredited by the ACGME through the
Residency Review Committee for Surgery (RRC-S). The
purpose of the RRC-S is to ensure that programs
provide a broad and comprehensive exposure to the
ﬁeld of vascular surgery and meet other educational,
administrative, and ethical requirements. Of note, an independent RRC for vascular surgery does not currently
exist; however, three vascular surgeons sit on the RRC-S
at all times.3 All vascular training programs reviewed by
the RRC-S will be reviewed by at least one vascular
surgeon.
On completion of any of these training programs, the
ABS allows a period of up to 7 years for trainees to
achieve initial board certiﬁcation in vascular surgery, during which time the candidate is considered board
eligible. To achieve initial vascular surgery board certiﬁcation, the physician must successfully complete clinical
training in vascular surgery through one of the three previously listed pathways, obtain a letter of attestation from
the training program director, obtain an unrestricted
state medical license to practice, successfully pass the
Registered Physician in Vascular Interpretation (RPVI)
examination before sitting for the certifying examination,
and pass the written (qualifying) and oral (certifying) examinations administered by the Vascular Surgery Board
of the ABS. The SVS emphasizes that graduates from
general surgery or cardiothoracic surgery residencies
are not eligible for ABS vascular surgery board certiﬁcation unless they have completed an ACGME-accredited
vascular surgery residency. It is the position of the SVS
that exposure to the ﬁeld of vascular surgery during
these other residencies is not sufﬁcient to acquire the
experience and judgment necessary for the independent
practice of vascular surgery.
After initial board certiﬁcation is achieved in vascular
surgery, the ABS requires physician participation in a
program for MOC, which continuously measures the
six core competencies deﬁned by the ACGME to
enhance patient care and to improve outcomes. A
four-part framework is used for MOC, including professional standing, lifelong learning, cognitive expertise, and performance in practice. Key elements of
the MOC process, although subject to change,
currently include a minimum of 90 hours of category
1 credits during a 3-year cycle (at least 60 of the 90
credit
hours
should
include
self-assessment),

1340

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Calligaro et al

May 2018

successful completion of a written examination at 10year intervals, and participation in a surgical outcomes database. Failure to maintain these requirements for MOC will result in loss of board
certiﬁcation (www.absurgery.org).

Table I. Residency Review Committee minimum criteria
for endovascular and open vascular surgery cases
Category

Minimum required No.

Endovascular abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair (EVAR)

20

Endovascular therapeutic
procedures

80

TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR VASCULAR
SURGERY TRAINEES

Endovascular diagnostic procedures

100

Complex

10

The recommendations for training requirements take into
account the comprehensive specialized training in vascular
surgery and include nonoperative medical management,
endovascular interventions, open surgical treatment, and
interpretation of noninvasive vascular laboratory studies.

Peripheral

45

Cerebrovascular

25

Abdominal

30

Medical Management Requirements. Training in medical management of peripheral vascular disease is an integral part of vascular surgery training. Vascular trainees
should have a thorough understanding of vascular disease risk factor modiﬁcation. The care of the vascular patient occurs in a continuum, and the trainee is expected
to be able to evaluate these patients preoperatively, in
the perioperative period including critical care management in the intensive care unit, and in the postoperative
outpatient setting including surveillance of interventions.
For individuals who have completed the traditional (5 þ
2) or early specialization (4 þ 2) training programs, their
general surgery training experience includes a minimum
of 40 cases in surgical critical care, with at least one in
each of seven categories: ventilator management;
bleeding (nontrauma); hemodynamic instability; organ
dysfunction/failure; dysrhythmias; invasive line management and monitoring; and parenteral/enteral nutrition.
For individuals who began integrated (0 þ 5) training in
July 2015, the minimum of 40 cases is also required
(http://www.absurgery.org/default.jsp?certvsqe).

catheterizations is 100, and the minimum number of
interventional catheterizations is 80 (Table I).4
It is not realistic or feasible to require minimum
numbers to confer competency for all endovascular
interventions because of an absence of supporting
evidence-based research. Nonetheless, the SVS wishes
to address three speciﬁc endovascular interventions:
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR), thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR), and carotid artery stenting
(CAS). The recommended minimum number of EVAR
cases is 20 and represents an increase over the 2002
RRC minimum of 5 cases as the primary operator. This
number reﬂects the increasing percentage of EVAR vs
open repair in the United States and speciﬁcally in
vascular training programs. These guidelines may
change with time to remain consistent with future
training.
The SVS endorses multidisciplinary guideline papers in
which the SVS has participated concerning TEVARs.5 Requirements for TEVARs include full basic endovascular
privileges with an experience of (1) 10 TEVARs within
the last 2 years or (2) less than this minimum for surgeons
with robust EVAR experience of at least 25 EVARs with 12
as the primary operator. The term full basic endovascular
privileges means that the operator is fully qualiﬁed as
deﬁned by multispecialty guidelines. On completion of
their training, vascular surgery trainees performing
TEVAR should be skilled in the perioperative management of aortic surgical patients and are expected to
have experience in performing adjunctive procedures
for TEVARs, including iliac conduits, femoral artery exposure, and debranching procedures such as carotidsubclavian bypasses. By deﬁnition, vascular surgeons
should have open thoracoabdominal aortic privileges,3
assuming their training encompassed these operations
(see earlier section, Deﬁnition of Vascular Surgery).
Multidisciplinary credentialing guidelines for CAS have
previously been published and endorsed by the SVS.6
These guidelines specify that diagnostic and stenting
procedures may both be counted if they are performed
during the same procedure. However, considering the

Endovascular Intervention Requirements. Open surgical training requirements were determined by the
RRC-S, but endovascular training requirements were
developed by the SVS in conjunction with other specialties performing these procedures. Vascular surgery
trainees are expected to acquire sufﬁcient training to
perform vascular catheter-based interventions, and previous guidelines have been published.3 Trainees are expected to submit their endovascular case load
experience as part of their complete operative log, as
veriﬁed by the program director, to the ACGME. Experience should be gained in performing diagnostic catheterizations among the various vascular beds, and at least
half should be selective catheterizations with 75% being
arterial and 25% venous.3 Similarly, at least 75% of the
therapeutic procedures should be on the arterial system
so that the majority of the endovascular experience is not
gained primarily through arteriovenous dialysis access
interventions.4 The minimum number of diagnostic

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Calligaro et al

1341

Volume 67, Number 5

broad range of exposures to catheter-based procedures
in vascular surgery training with a variety of platforms
and based on the most recent recommendations of
the Association of Program Directors in Vascular Surgery
(personal communication), we recommend a minimum
of 20 carotid angiograms, with half as the primary operator, and a minimum of 15 carotid stent procedures,3
with half as the primary operator.5
Open Vascular Surgery Requirements. The vascular
surgery trainee is expected to have performed sufﬁcient
numbers of open operations covering the full spectrum
in the ﬁeld of vascular surgery. The requirement is carefully evaluated by the RRC-S. This body and the ABS
track individual components of complex operations and
consider all components when evaluating programs and
trainees. Trainees are expected to submit their operative
experience to the ACGME. Their case load is veriﬁed on
their graduation by their program director.
The RRC has established minimum criteria for major
vascular reconstructive procedures performed by
vascular surgery trainees (https://www.acgme.org/
Portals/0/VS_CatMins.pdf). The required numbers are
250 major vascular cases for all vascular surgery trainees,
regardless of whether they participate in the traditional
(5 þ 2), early specialization (4 þ 2), or integrated (0 þ 5)
programs. These cases should reﬂect an adequate representation of current practice as well as breadth and balance of experience in the surgical care of vascular
diseases. Although these numbers are continually subject to change, the minimum criteria for vascular procedures currently include 30 abdominal vascular
procedures, 25 cerebrovascular, 45 peripheral, and 10
complex vascular reconstructions (Table I).
Noninvasive vascular laboratory diagnosis requirements. Vascular surgery training programs must
include training in noninvasive vascular laboratory studies.
To interpret these studies, a graduating trainee must
demonstrate knowledge of vascular anatomy and
physiology, as well as ultrasound physics, through the
interpretation of noninvasive vascular studies. As suggested by the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission
(previously the Intersocietal Commission for the Accreditation of Vascular Laboratories), a minimum number of
supervised interpreted studies during postgraduate
training are required for individuals desiring to apply for
privileges in interpretation of speciﬁc individual areas of
the vascular laboratory7 (Table II). Not all individuals
interpreting vascular laboratory studies will wish to interpret studies in all the areas of the vascular laboratory or
will be qualiﬁed to interpret studies in all areas outlined
before. Individuals3 may therefore elect to pursue privileges only in those areas in which they have sufﬁcient
qualiﬁcations and training. The SVS believes that clinical
experience in the treatment of vascular disorders is the

Table II. Intersocietal Accreditation Committee guidelines for supervised interpreted studies
Peripheral arterial physiologic test, 100
Peripheral arterial duplex scanning, 100
d Peripheral venous duplex scanning, 100
d Carotid duplex scanning, 100
d Transcranial duplex/Doppler scanning, 100
d Visceral vascular duplex scanning, 75
d
d

other mandatory component of the noninvasive vascular
laboratory experience that other specialties may not
provide. After completing training, the practicing vascular
surgeon who wishes to interpret these studies must provide evidence of continuing medical education (CME)
activity speciﬁc to noninvasive vascular diagnostic studies.
As of 2014, initial board certiﬁcation in vascular surgery by
the Vascular Surgery Board of the ABS is predicated on
successfully passing the RPVI examination.
As of June 2016, the Alliance for Physician Certiﬁcation
and Advancement (APCA) certiﬁes a physician to be an
RPVI (previously administered by the American Registry
of Diagnostic Medical Sonographers). The RPVI examination has speciﬁc prerequisites that must be completed
before the vascular board examinations are taken. Successful passing of the RPVI examination ensures expertise in the interpretation of vascular laboratory studies
among current vascular surgery trainees. An exception
would be those individuals who successfully passed the
Registered Vascular Technology examination before the
creation of the RPVI examination.

TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW VASCULAR
PROCEDURES
Vascular surgeons are expected to acquire proﬁciency
in new and evolving open and endovascular procedures.
As new procedures are introduced, it is important that
practitioners be properly credentialed to ensure excellent outcomes and patient safety, which should include
evidence of participation in CME courses relevant to
the topic. On- or off-site mentoring may be required,
depending on the complexity of the new procedure
and experience of the operator, and will need to be
determined on a case-by-case basis. Physicians already
trained and credentialed in endovascular interventions
can use many new and modiﬁed devices, however,
without additional special certiﬁcation. Proctoring for
certain new procedures may be desirable (http://www.
sts.org/about-sts/policies/proctoring-policy).
The SVS proposes the following guidelines regarding
training requirements for new open and endovascular
vascular procedures.
1. Training requirements for new endovascular procedures at a given hospital, including cognitive training
in disease management and patient care, should be
the same for all interventionalists, regardless of

1342

Calligaro et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
May 2018

specialty and regardless of whether they are applying
for new vascular privileges or are already credentialed
in vascular procedures at that hospital. We recognize
that training requirements for certain procedures
may vary across specialties and have addressed this
issue in other sections.3
2. The deﬁnition of a “new” procedure changes with time.
Societies may accumulate data providing a basis for
performing new procedures at later dates. For
example, criteria were previously proposed speciﬁcally
for TEVAR and carotid stenting at a time when these
procedures were considered new (see earlier section,
Training Requirements for Vascular Surgery Trainees).
Now these procedures are performed frequently in
many institutions and are an integral part of all
accredited vascular surgery training programs. Other
procedures, such as fenestrated aortic grafts, renal angioplasty and stenting, visceral artery angioplasty and
stenting, catheter-based thrombolysis, and intravascular ultrasound-directed venous stenting, are also
routinely performed in many hospitals. Whereas other
societies have created criteria for credentialing for
some of these procedures, consensus statements are
lacking for most. There may be a role for further intersocietal criteria in the future.
3. Training requirements should be determined by
frequency and complexity of the new procedures,
industry requirements, and standards set by societies
and by individual hospitals already performing these
procedures. There should be an initial period of monitoring and evaluation of the provider’s performance of
the new procedure.
4. Individual hospitals should establish guidelines determined by all accredited interventionalists practicing
these newer procedures. These guidelines should
include ongoing evaluation of outcomes for these
new vascular surgical and endovascular procedures
(see later section, Renewal of Privileges).
The SVS continues to support past recommendations
by multidisciplinary writing groups, which included SVS
participation, regarding TEVAR and CAS.4,5 The same
numbers mentioned for vascular residents entering practice apply to credentialed surgeons already in practice
(see earlier section, Training Requirements for Vascular
Surgery Trainees). For credentialed vascular surgeons in
practice, a minimum of 10 hours of CME activity should
be devoted to TEVAR every 2 years. For those performing
CAS, 20 hours of CME activity speciﬁc to percutaneous
therapeutic endovascular intervention and cerebrovascular disease should be required, 10 of which should be
relevant to cervical or extracranial carotid angioplasty
and stenting every 3 years.8 Successful completion of
an industry-sponsored course by credentialed surgeons
in practice may also be desirable to ensure familiarity
with the nuances of various new devices; however, this
should not be equated with having achieved competency in the overall procedure. As suggested earlier, proctoring for certain procedures may be considered.

REQUIREMENTS FOR HOSPITAL PRIVILEGES IN
VASCULAR SURGERY AND ENDOVASCULAR
INTERVENTIONS AND NONINVASIVE VASCULAR
LABORATORY INTERPRETATION
New applicants. Regarding initial open vascular surgical privileges, hospital credentialing committees must
recognize the high level of training and expertise previously outlined and offer new privileges only to boardeligible or board-certiﬁed vascular surgeons. Regarding
initial endovascular privileges, the SVS also ﬁrmly recommends that hospital committees recognize the high
level of training required by board-eligible and boardcertiﬁed vascular surgeons, which we have also previously detailed. We recognize that physicians from other
specialties may be qualiﬁed to perform endovascular
procedures if they have received sufﬁcient training from
their own ACGME-approved training programs. We agree
with the recommendations of Reed and Gornik9 that
1 year of training devoted to peripheral vascular interventions, in addition to 1 year of coronary intervention
training, be required for interventional cardiologists to be
granted peripheral endovascular privileges. The SVS
recommends that the criteria used in each facility to
grant initial privileges in endovascular procedures be
designed to provide vascular care that is safe and
centered on the best possible patient outcomes using
evidence-based guidelines. As part of the credentialing
process, we recommend that hospitals should have
criteria in place to certify practitioners from different
specialties when performing similar procedures.
Of note, The Joint Commission (www.jointcommission.
org) holds all health care facilities responsible for credentialing physicians to the same standards, irrespective of
the physician’s specialty. Case volumes have been used
as a surrogate for competence for these procedures
with the realization that it is an imperfect standard.2,7
The SVS believes that speciﬁc privileging criteria
including minimum number of cases are not feasible
for endovascular interventions for each vascular tree.
However, speciﬁc criteria have been developed for endovascular interventions for thoracic aortic disease, carotid
artery disease, and others that have been previously
mentioned.
In addition, in accordance with The Joint Commission,
the SVS recommends that credentialing of new applicants should also require veriﬁcation of licensure and
an assessment of the physician’s current competence
to perform the requested privileges.
Renewal of privileges. Renewal of privileges should be
granted to physicians with existing privileges in (1) open
vascular surgery, namely, vascular surgeons, general surgeons, or cardiothoracic surgeons, and (2) endovascular
interventions, namely, vascular surgeons, interventional
cardiologists, and interventional radiologists who have
completed appropriate training programs and on the

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Calligaro et al

1343

Volume 67, Number 5

Table III. Summary of guidelines for hospital privileges in vascular surgery and endovascular therapy
New hospital privileges
Completion of ACGME-approved vascular surgery residency with passing of ABS vascular certiﬁcation within 7 years of
completion of training
This training includes the open surgical and endovascular experience inherent in these approved programs, along with
passing the RPVI examination and gaining knowledge of medical management of these patients
Renewal of existing vascular privileges for vascular surgeons
Passage of ABS recertifying examination in vascular surgery within 10 years
Completion of MOC by the ABS
Outcome analysis based on regional or local registries (eg, SVS VQI)
Passing the RPVI examination or appropriate CME in the noninvasive vascular laboratory
Renewal of existing vascular privileges for nonvascular surgeons
Passage of recertifying examination in the physician’s specialty within 10 years
Completion of MOC
Outcome analysis based on regional or local registries
Passing the RPVI examination or appropriate CME in the noninvasive vascular laboratory
ABS, American Board of Surgery; ACGME, Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education; CME, continuing medical education; MOC,
Maintenance of Certiﬁcation; RPVI, Registered Physician in Vascular Interpretation; SVS, Society for Vascular Surgery; VQI, Vascular Quality Initiative.

basis of maintenance of board certiﬁcation and MOC
requirements.
Credentialing committees in each hospital should
deﬁne case volumes and outcomes for recredentialing.
Renewal of privileges in vascular surgery and endovascular procedures for surgeons and other interventionalists
who already have privileges to perform these procedures
should be granted on the basis of an analysis of their
patient outcomes in comparison to local, regional, and
national standards. The SVS strongly encourages hospitals
and their credentialing bodies to have access to a
nationally validated registry of vascular surgery and endovascular procedures for all physicians performing these
procedures, regardless of the physician’s specialty or the
location where they are performed (eg, cardiac catheterization laboratory, interventional radiology suite, and
hybrid or conventional vascular operating rooms). The
SVS endorses participation in the Vascular Quality Initiative (VQI; www.vascularqualityinitiative.org) to improve
regional benchmarking by assessing the quality, safety,
effectiveness, and cost of vascular procedures. By collecting, analyzing, and sharing data on preprocedure risk factors, intraprocedural variables, postprocedural outcomes,
and 1-year follow-up data, outcome analysis can be performed. The SVS recommends that a procedure not reported in the VQI or other validated registries should not
be referred to in terms of establishing minimum numbers
for privileges but instead be reviewed with the goal being
to demonstrate competent decision-making.
The SVS also endorses Ongoing Professional Practice
Evaluation and Focused Professional Practice Evaluation
processes as directed by The Joint Commission for
newly credentialed physicians, newly credentialed
procedures, and physician probationary periods (www.
jointcommission.org). Ongoing Professional Practice
Evaluation can be used as a performance enhancement

tool to avoid adverse outcomes. Quality measures
selected by the hospital’s credentialing committee
within the ﬁeld of vascular surgery should be established
and met during a predetermined time period immediately after initial appointment of a vascular surgeon or
other endovascular specialist. These quality indicators,
which can mirror ongoing VQI data collection, may be
compared with peer or benchmark data and used to
validate competence within the ﬁeld and to determine
the maintenance or alteration of privileges. More important, this valuable measure can allow early identiﬁcation
of negative trends and lead to timely proactive education, training, or collegial intervention. Similarly, Focused
Professional Practice Evaluation can be instituted for
vascular surgeons requiring additional review during probationary periods or for newly credentialed procedures.
Meaningful quality measures should be established for
all new procedures based on review of available data in
the literature and input from a multidisciplinary group
of peers. Prospective review of these indicators will
ensure safe and proﬁcient implementation of the new
procedure for each qualifying vascular surgeon or endovascular interventionalist.
Mechanisms of audit, morbidity and mortality review,
and corrective actions in each hospital fall under the purview of a peer review committee, credentialing committee, or designated subcommittee with input from a
multidisciplinary quality assurance committee.
In regard to credentialing for interpretation of noninvasive vascular laboratory studies, whether for new privileges or for renewal of privileges, RPVI credentialing
from the APCA should be construed as having fulﬁlled
the requirements for vascular laboratory credentialing if
the physicians have also demonstrated a commitment
to treating vascular disorders. The APCA requires a speciﬁc number of cases and experience before allowing

1344

Calligaro et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
May 2018

physicians to take the examination (see earlier section,
Training Requirements for Vascular Surgery Trainees).
Vascular surgeons who completed an ACGMEapproved vascular surgery training program since 2014
are required to obtain an RPVI certiﬁcate to become
board eligible and therefore are qualiﬁed to have privileges for interpretation of noninvasive vascular laboratory
studies because they also have fulﬁlled criteria of thorough training in treating vascular disease. We recommend that other specialists follow these same
guidelines. The SVS ﬁrmly recommends that physicians
not be allowed to interpret noninvasive vascular laboratory studies, even if the candidate passes the
examination, unless the applicant also has completed
or is in the process of completing a residency or fellowship dedicated to the comprehensive management of
vascular disease, such as vascular surgery, vascular medicine, cardiology, or radiology. This additional requirement prohibits physicians who do not have thorough
training in the diagnosis and treatment of vascular disorders from being allowed to interpret these studies.
Obtaining certiﬁcation from the American Society of
Neuroimaging is acceptable for physicians who wish to
interpret extracranial and intracranial examinations only.
The SVS, in agreement with The Joint Commission standards, believes that the decision to grant or to deny hospital privileges in vascular surgery to new applicants or to
those with established practices, irrespective of specialty,
should be an objective evidence-based process.
A summary of guidelines for hospital privileges in
vascular and endovascular surgery is provided in Table III.

REFERENCES
1. Calligaro KD, Toursarkissian B, Clagett GP, Towne J,
Hodgson K, Moneta G, et al. Guidelines for hospital privileges
in vascular and endovascular surgery: recommendations of
the Society for Vascular Surgery. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:1-5.

2. Bashore TM, Balter S, Barac A, Byrne JG, Cavendish JJ,
Chambers CE, et al. 2012 American College of Cardiology
Foundation/Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and
Interventions expert consensus document on cardiac
catheterization laboratory standards update: a report of
the American College of Cardiology Foundation Task
Force on Expert Consensus documents developed in
collaboration with the Society of Thoracic Surgeons and
Society for Vascular Medicine. J Am Coll Cardiol 2012;59:
2221-305.
3. Creager MA, Gornik HL, Gray BH, Hamburg NM, Iobst WF,
Mohler ER 3rd, et al. COCATS 4 Task Force 9: training in
vascular medicine: endorsed by the Society for Vascular
Medicine. Vasc Med 2015;20:384-94.
4. White RA, Hodson KJ, Ahn SS, Robson RW II, Veith FJ. Endovascular interventions training and credentialing for vascular
surgeons. J Vasc Surg 1999;29:177-86.
5. Hodgson KJ, Matsumura JS, Ascher E, Dake MD, Sacks D,
Krol K, et al. Clinical competence statement on thoracic
endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR)dmultispecialty consensus
recommendations. A report of the SVS/SIR/SCAI/SVMB
Writing Committee to Develop a Clinical Competence Standard for TEVAR. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:858-62.
6. Rosenﬁeld KM; SCAI/SVMB/SVS Writing Committee. Clinical
competence statement on carotid stenting: training and
credentialing for carotid stenting. Multispecialty consensus
recommendations. A report of the SCAI/SVMB/SVS writing
committee to develop a clinical competence statement on
carotid interventions. J Vasc Surg 2005;41:160-8.
7. IAC standards and guidelines for vascular testing accreditation. Available at: http://www.intersocietal.org/vascular/
standards/IACVascular.testing.standards2018.pdf. Accessed
January 2018.
8. The IAC standards for carotid stenting accreditation.
Available at: http://www.intersocietal.org/carotid/standards/
IACCarotidStentingStandards2014.pdf. Accessed December
2016.
9. Reed GW, Gornik HL. Training pathways in peripheral vascular
disease for FITs. Available at: http://www.acc.org/membership/
sections-and-councils/fellows-in-training-section/ﬁt-informationhub/career-development/2016/01/18/10/16/training-pathwaysin-peripheral-vascular-disease-for-ﬁts. Accessed December
2016.


