SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERYÒ DOCUMENT

The Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity
Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System: Risk
stratiﬁcation based on Wound, Ischemia, and foot
Infection (WIfI)
Joseph L. Mills, Sr, MD,a Michael S. Conte, MD,b David G. Armstrong, DPM, MD, PhD,a
Frank B. Pomposelli, MD,c Andres Schanzer, MD,d Anton N. Sidawy, MD, MPH,e and
George Andros, MD,f on behalf of the Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Guidelines
Committee, Tucson, Ariz; San Francisco and Van Nuys, Calif; Brighton and Worcester, Mass; and
Washington, D.C.
Critical limb ischemia, ﬁrst deﬁned in 1982, was intended to delineate a subgroup of patients with a threatened lower
extremity primarily because of chronic ischemia. It was the intent of the original authors that patients with diabetes be
excluded or analyzed separately. The Fontaine and Rutherford Systems have been used to classify risk of amputation and
likelihood of beneﬁt from revascularization by subcategorizing patients into two groups: ischemic rest pain and tissue
loss. Due to demographic shifts over the last 40 years, especially a dramatic rise in the incidence of diabetes mellitus and
rapidly expanding techniques of revascularization, it has become increasingly difﬁcult to perform meaningful outcomes
analysis for patients with threatened limbs using these existing classiﬁcation systems. Particularly in patients with diabetes, limb threat is part of a broad disease spectrum. Perfusion is only one determinant of outcome; wound extent and
the presence and severity of infection also greatly impact the threat to a limb. Therefore, the Society for Vascular Surgery
Lower Extremity Guidelines Committee undertook the task of creating a new classiﬁcation of the threatened lower
extremity that reﬂects these important considerations. We term this new framework, the Society for Vascular Surgery
Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System. Risk stratiﬁcation is based on three major factors that impact
amputation risk and clinical management: Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI). The implementation of this
classiﬁcation system is intended to permit more meaningful analysis of outcomes for various forms of therapy in this
challenging, but heterogeneous population. (J Vasc Surg 2014;59:220-34.)

Critical limb ischemia (CLI) was ﬁrst deﬁned in published form in 1982.1 The authors’ expressed intent was
that the term be only applied to patients without diabetes
From the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Southern Arizona
Limb Salvage Alliance, University of Arizona Health Sciences Center,
Tucsona; the University of California San Francisco, San Franciscob; the
St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center, Brightonc; the University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcesterd; the George Washington University
School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C.e; and the
Amputation Prevention Center, Valley Presbyterian Medical Center,
Van Nuys.f
Author conﬂict of interest: none.
Additional material for this article may be found online at www.jvascsurg.org.
Reprint requests: Joseph L. Mills, Sr, MD, Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Southern Arizona Limb Salvage Alliance, University of
Arizona Health Sciences Center, Tucson, AZ 85724 (e-mail: jmills@u.
arizona.edu).
Independent peer-review and oversight has been provided by members of
the SVS Document Oversight Committee (Peter Gloviczki, MD (chair),
Thomas Forbes, MD, William D. Jordan Jr, MD, Glenn LaMuraglia,
MD, Michel Makaroun, MD, Greg Moneta, MD, Amy Reed, MD, Russell H. Samson MD, Timur Sarac, MD, and Thomas W. Wakeﬁeld, MD).
0741-5214/$36.00
Copyright Ó 2014 by the Society for Vascular Surgery.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2013.08.003

220

whose major threat to limb was chronic ischemia. CLI was
deﬁned as an ankle pressure (AP) <40 mm Hg in the presence of rest pain and <60 mm Hg in the presence of tissue
necrosis. Toward the end of this brief document, the authors
emphasized: “It was generally agreed that diabetic patients
who have a varied clinical picture of neuropathy, ischemia
and sepsis make deﬁnition even more difﬁcult and it is desirable that these patients be excluded.or should be clearly
deﬁned as a separate category to allow the analysis of the
results in the nondiabetic patients.”1 Over the last 40 years,
the use of the term CLI has been widely and inappropriately
applied to a much broader spectrum of patients than originally intended. In part because of this overly liberal application of the term CLI, efforts to measure and compare
outcomes of different treatment options have been problematic, especially as revascularization options and other
treatment approaches have rapidly expanded.
For a disease staging system to be clinically relevant, it
must achieve two primary goals: (1) accurately provide risk
stratiﬁcation of patients with respect to disease natural
history, and (2) accurately stratify patients with sufﬁcient
granularity to allow meaningful comparison of different

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

treatment strategies. Because it must be descriptive and
predictive, a key guiding principle in developing an
improved classiﬁcation of chronic ischemia and the threatened limb is that disease stages should correlate with their
natural history or risk of major amputation if treated
conservatively. It is our expressed purpose to refocus the
approach to the patient with a threatened limb and
a component of chronic ischemia according to disease
severity rather than arterial lesion characteristics.
There are two major problems with current classiﬁcation systems: (1) the validity and natural history of the
concept of CLI, and (2) the failure of most existing systems
to assess and grade the major factors that inﬂuence both
risk of limb loss and clinical management.
As presently deﬁned, CLI is associated with decreased
quality of life, increased risk for amputation, and increased
mortality. The 5-year mortality for CLI patients is 50% to
60%, with coronary events and strokes accounting for at
least 70% of the deaths.2-7 However, efforts to understand
the natural history and compare outcomes of alternative
therapies have been hindered by inconsistencies in the deﬁnition and the heterogeneity of clinical presentation.
The term CLI implies that a speciﬁc cutoff value exists
below which limb perfusion is inadequate and that without
revascularization, the limb will inevitably be lost. The precise
level of perfusion deﬁcit that deﬁnes “critical ischemia” is
unclear. There have been minor modiﬁcations of the original proposed hemodynamic cutoff measurements, with
Rutherford Classiﬁcation,8 the TransAtlantic Inter-Society
Consensus (TASC),9 and the European Consensus10 statements proposing similar deﬁnitions for CLI based on the
presence or absence of tissue necrosis, with the addition of
toe pressure (TP) and transcutaneous oxygen measurements
(TcPO2). AP criteria range from <40 to 70 mm Hg with TP
and TcPO2 <30 to 50 mm Hg; lower values are required for
patients with rest pain, and higher ones for patients presenting with tissue loss (ulceration or gangrene).
CLI implies a poor limb outcome without intervention.
Observations from the Circulase trial11 raise serious doubts
about this very concept. Only patients with rest pain (Fontaine III) and ischemic ulcers or gangrene (Fontaine IV)
who met strict hemodynamic criteria were enrolled. In the
placebo arm of this trial, the amputation rate at 6 months
was only 13%, nearly all of which were judged to result
from complications of ischemia, “with untreatable infection
the most common indication.”11 Marston reported a series
of 142 patients with wounds and severe limb ischemia
(ankle-brachial index [ABI] <0.7 or TP <50 mm Hg)
who were treated at a comprehensive wound care center
with meticulous wound care but without revascularization.12 The amputation rates were 19% at 6 months and
23% at 12 months. Wound healing with conservative
management was reported in 52% of patients at 12 months.
A recent study by Elgzyri and colleagues evaluated 602
patients with diabetic foot ulcers who had either a systolic
TP <45 mm Hg or an AP <80 mm Hg who were not revascularized and reported that 50% healed primarily with
wound care or with minor amputation; 17% healed, but

Mills et al 221

only after requiring a major amputation; and 33% died
with limbs intact but with unhealed wounds. The authors
concluded by stating that “diabetic patients with ischemic
foot ulcers not available for revascularization are not
excluded from healing without major amputation.Our
ﬁndings reinforce the need for a classiﬁcation system considering these factors at decision.”13 These observations highlight the challenges in interpreting limb salvage and
amputation-free survival outcomes in the literature, particularly when making comparisons between different reports or
non-randomized groups.
CURRENT CLASSIFICATION SYSTEMS
In modern practice, patients with a threatened lower
extremity present with a broad spectrum of underlying
contributory factors of which ischemia is just one component, albeit an important one, in determining whether
that limb can be salvaged. Existing CLI classiﬁcation
systems fail to adequately categorize the extent of tissue
loss or the presence and severity of infection. The clinical
classiﬁcation systems that include the broad categories of
rest pain, ischemic ulceration, and gangrene (Rutherford
4, 5, and 68; Fontaine III, IV14), while adequate for identifying patients at increased risk for major limb amputation
and death, are not sufﬁciently detailed to stratify the range
of risk or determine best therapy across this heterogeneous
spectrum of patients. Controversies over revascularization
approaches (open bypass vs endovascular therapy),15-17
and nonrevascularization approaches (local wound care vs
hyperbaric oxygen therapy vs cell-based therapy)18-22
cannot be resolved without more precise stratiﬁcation of
the patients being treated. In addition, recent trends have
focused excessively on anatomic extent of disease and arteriographic ﬁndings without sufﬁcient emphasis on the
physiologic state of the limb.
The marked demographic shift over the last quarter
century because of the global epidemic of diabetes has
made the admonition of the original drafters of the term
CLI increasingly relevant. The rising incidence of diabetes
and diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) as well as an increased
incidence of peripheral artery disease (PAD) in patients
with diabetes further mandates a reconsideration of the
concept of CLI.23 In many modern series, the prevalence
of diabetes in reports of patients undergoing revascularization for limb salvage is as high as 50% to 80%. The diabetes
prevalence was 58% in the Bypass vs Angioplasty in Severe
Ischaemia of the Leg (BASIL) trial,24-26 64% in the Project
of Ex-Vivo Vein Graft Engineering via Transfection III
(PREVENT III) trial,27 and exceeds 70% to 80% in many
specialized vascular centers.28,29 Although tradition teaches
that the initiating cause of foot ulceration in patients with
diabetes is primarily neuropathy (loss of protective sensation and foot deformity from motor neuropathy), DFUs
may be broadly categorized into three groups: purely
neuropathic, purely ischemic, and neuroischemic (mixed).
Based on recent studies, the prevalence of neuroischemic
ulcers has steadily risen from approximately 20%-25% in
the 1990s to over 50% of patients currently.23 Thus,

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

222 Mills et al

Table I. Summary and comparison of existing diabetic foot ulcer, wound, and lower extremity ischemia classiﬁcation
systems
Classiﬁcation system

Ischemic rest pain

Ulcer

Gangrene

Rutherford8

Yes, category 4/6

Category 5, minor tissue loss, nonhealing ulcer,
focal gangrene with diffuse pedal ischemia

Category 6, major tissue loss extending
above TM level, functional foot no longer
salvageable (although in practice often refers to
extensive gangrene, potentially salvageable foot
with signiﬁcant efforts)

Fontaine14

Yes, class III/IV

Class IV/IV, ulcer and gangrene grouped
together

Class IV/IV, ulcer and gangrene grouped together

PEDIS43

No

No

UT34

No

Yes, grades 1-3;
Grade 1: superﬁcial full-thickness ulcer, not
penetrating deeper than the dermis;
Grade 2: deep ulcer, penetrating below the
dermis to subcutaneous structures involving
fascia, muscle or tendon;
Grade 3: All subsequent layers of the foot
involved including bone and/or joint (exposed
bone, probing to bone)
Yes, grades 0-3 ulcers;
Grade 0: pre- or postulcerative completely
epithelialized lesion;
Grade 1: superﬁcial, not involving tendon,
capsule, or bone;
Grade 2: penetrating to tendon/capsule;
Grade 3: penetrating to bone or joint

Wagner35,36

No

Ulcer and gangrene grouped together; gangrene
due to infection not differentiated from
gangrene due to ischemia; also includes
osteomyelitis

S(AD) SAD system40

No

Saint Elian39

No

IDSA42

No

Grade 0: pre- or postulcerative lesion;
Grade 1: partial/full thickness ulcer;
Grade 2: probing to tendon or capsule;
Grade 3: deep ulcer with osteitis;
Grade 4: partial foot gangrene;
Grade 5: whole foot gangrene
Yes, grades 0-3 based on area and depth;
Grade 0: skin intact;
Grade 1: superﬁcial, <1 cm2;
Grade 2: penetrates to tendon,
periosteum, joint capsule, 1-3 cm2;
Grade 3: lesions in bone or joint space, >3 cm2
Yes, grades 1-3 based on depth;
Grade 1: superﬁcial wound disrupting entire
skin;
Grade 2: moderate or partial depth,
down to fascia, tendon or muscle but not
bone or joints;
Grade 3: severe or total, wounds with bone or
joint involvement, multiple
categories including area, ulcer
number, location and topography
No

No

SVS Lower Extremity
Threatened Limb
Classiﬁcation

Yes, wound/clinical
class 0-3

Yes, grades 0-3;
Grouped by depth, location and size and
magnitude of ablative/wound coverage
procedure required to achieve healing

Yes, grades 0-3;
Grouped by extent, location and size and
magnitude of ablative or wound coverage
procedure required to achieve healing

No

No

No

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; AP, ankle pressure; CLI, critical limb ischemia; DFUs, diabetic foot ulcers; IDSA, Infectious Disease Society of America; PAD,
peripheral artery disease; PEDIS, perfusion, extent/size, depth/tissue loss, infection, sensation; PVR, pulse volume recording; SAD, sepsis, arteriopathy,
denervation; SVS, Society for Vascular Surgery; TcPO2, transcutaneous oxygen pressure; TP, toe pressure; UT, University of Texas.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

Mills et al 223

Table I. Continued.
Ischemia

Infection

Yes, cutoffs for CLI;
Category 4: Resting AP <40 mm Hg; Flat or
barely pulsatile ankle or forefoot PVR;
TP <30 mm Hg
Category 5/6: AP <60 mm Hg; ﬂat or
barely pulsatile ankle or forefoot PVR;
TP <40 mm Hg

No

Cutoff values for CLI based on European
consensus document:
Ischemic rest pain >2 weeks with AP <50 mm
Hg or TP <30 mm Hg ulcer and gangrene;
AP <50 mm Hg, TP <30 mm Hg, absent pedal
pulses in patient with diabetes
Yes, 3 grades; CLI cutoff
Grade 1: no PAD symptoms, ABI >0.9, TBI
>0.6, TcPO2 >60 mm Hg;
Grade 2: PAD symptoms, ABI <0.9, AP
>50 mm Hg, TP >30 mm Hg, TcPO2 3060 mm Hg;
Grade 3: AP <50 mm Hg, TP <30 mm Hg,
TcPO2 <30 mm Hg

No

Comments
Pure ischemia model PAD classiﬁcation system
includes milder forms of PAD (categories 1-3);
Categories 4-6 based on cutoff values for CLI;
No spectrum of ischemia, does not
acknowledge potential need for
revascularization with <CLI cutoff depending
on wound extent/infection; Not intended for
patients with diabetes; Wound classes not
sufﬁciently detailed; Omits infection as a trigger
Pure ischemia model; No clear deﬁnitions of
spectrum of hemodynamics; Minimal
description of wounds; Infection omitted

Yes, grades 1-4; see IDSA classiﬁcation (Table II)

Primarily intended for DFUs; Ulcer grades
validated; Includes perfusion assessment, but
with cutoff for CLI; Gangrene not separately
categorized; Includes validated IDSA infection
categories

Yes 6 based on ABI <0.8

Yes, 6 wounds with frank purulence or >2 of the
following (warmth, eythema, lymphangitis,
edema, lymphadenopathy, pain, loss of
function) considered infected

Primarily intended for DFUs; Includes validated
ulcer categories; PAD and infection included,
but only as 6 with no grades/spectrum

No

No for soft tissue component; included only as
osteomyelitis

Orthopedic classiﬁcation intended for diabetic feet;
No hemodynamics; Gangrene from infection
not differentiated from that due to ischemia;
Osteomyelitis included; Soft tissue infection not
separated from bone infection

Pulse palpation only, no hemodynamics

Yes, 1 ¼ no infection; 2 ¼ cellulitis; 3 ¼
osteomyelitis

Intended for DFUs; Also includes neuropathy;
Does not mention gangrene; No hemodynamic
information; Perfusion assessment based on
pulse palpation only

Yes, grades 0-3;
Grade 0: AP >80 mm Hg, ABI 0.9-1.2;
Grade 1: AP 70-80 mm Hg, ABI 0.7-0.89, TP
55-80 mm Hg;
Grade 2: AP 55-69 mm Hg, ABI 0.5-0.69, TP
30-54 mm Hg;
Grade 3: AP <55 mm Hg, ABI <0.5,
TP <30 mm Hg

Yes, grades 0-3;
Grade 0: none;
Grade 1: mild. erythema 0.5-2 cm, induration,
tenderness, warmth and purulence;
Grade 2: moderate, erythema >2 cm, abscess,
muscle tendon, joint, or bone infection;
Grade 3: severe, systemic response (similar to
IDSA)

Detailed system intended only for DFUs; Detailed
comprehensive ulcer classiﬁcation system and
hemodynamic categories for gradation of
ischemia; Gangrene not considered separately
Infection system similar to IDSA

No

Yes, uninfected, mild, moderate, and severe
(Table II)

Yes, ischemia grades 0-3;
Hemodynamics with spectrum of perfusion
abnormalities; No cutoff value for CLI;
Grade 0: unlikely to require revascularization

Yes, IDSA system (Table II)

Validated system for risk of amputation related to
foot infection, but not designed to address
wound depth/complexity or degree of ischemia
Includes PAD þ diabetes with spectrum of
wounds, ischemia and infection, scaled from 03; No cutoff for CLI. Need for revascularization
depends on degree of ischemia, wound and/or
infection severity; Ulcers/gangrene categorized
based on extent and complexity of anticipated
ablative surgery/coverage

224 Mills et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

neuroischemia is now the most common etiology of DFUs
in most western countries. The estimated current prevalence rates of neuropathic, ischemic, and neuroischemic
ulcers in patients with diabetes are 35%, 15%, and 50%,
respectively.30
An adequate classiﬁcation system that risk stratiﬁes
patients and aids in clinical decision-making represents an
enormous unmet need in the ﬁeld of chronic limb
ischemia. While limb perfusion and arterial anatomy are
key factors in predicting amputation risk, so too are wound
depth and presence and extent of infection. The presence
of neuropathy also has an important impact on risks of
ulcer recurrence and amputation. Classiﬁcation systems
published to date have been of limited utility in clinical
decision-making because of their overly narrow focus on
speciﬁc aspects of the lower extremity at risk for amputation. TASC I,9 TASC II,31 the Bollinger32 system, and
the Graziani morphologic categorization,33 for example,
address only arterial anatomy, but fail to quantify the index
wound or baseline perfusion status. Most DFU classiﬁcations lack adequate assessment of perfusion because
ischemia is included only as a dichotomized variable (based
on a cutoff ABI of 0.8), with no gradations for severity, or
they mistakenly apply CLI hemodynamic criteria that were
never intended to be applied to patients with DFUs.34-49
The existing major wound classiﬁcation systems (Table I)
are primarily ulcer classiﬁcations, and generally do not
distinguish ulcers from gangrene. The Infectious Disease
Society of America (IDSA) clinical classiﬁcation system42,46
works well for infection, strongly correlates with amputation risk and has been validated, but does not address
wound type or perfusion status. Consequently, none of
these systems is sufﬁciently comprehensive to allow accurate, baseline patient classiﬁcation and stratiﬁcation to serve
as the foundation for subsequent comparison of outcomes
among centers, patient subgroups, and revascularization
procedures. This issue is especially important in the setting
of diabetic foot ulcers.42-60

“CLI” criteria. Other patients with “CLI” may heal with
wound care alone, without revascularization, or may be
managed with analgesics for long periods of time while
retaining a functional limb. The new system we have developed dispenses with the term CLI and instead creates an
objective classiﬁcation of the threatened limb based on
the degree of ischemia, wound extent, gangrene, and infection. This updated Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS)
Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System
is intended to deﬁne the disease burden, analogous to
the tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) system for cancer
staging. It is not intended or designed to inﬂuence or
dictate treatment method, especially since treatment
modalities continue to evolve. The primary purpose of
this classiﬁcation is to provide more precise description of
the disease burden to allow accurate outcomes assessments
and comparisons between similar groups of patients and
alternative therapies. In addition, going forward, an
updated risk factor/comorbidity index and a simpler
anatomic classiﬁcation system will need to be added to
this disease burden classiﬁcation to aid in selection of the
best therapy for any given patient.
The need to reconsider how we classify the threatened
limb is clear. Ischemia, while of fundamental importance, is
but one component among a triad of major factors that
place a limb at risk for amputation. The proposed SVS
Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System
is based simply on grading each of the three major factors
(Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection [WIfI]). This classiﬁcation system is hereinafter referred to as SVS WIfI. It is
based on a scale from 0 to 3, where 0 represents none, 1
mild, 2 moderate, and 3 severe (Table II). This classiﬁcation represents a synthesis of multiple previously published
classiﬁcation schemes that merges systems focused on diabetic foot ulcers and pure ischemia models. A brief description of its derivation and underlying rationale follows. The
terms grades, classes, and stages as used in this document
are clariﬁed in Table III.

JUSTIFICATION FOR AN UPDATED
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM

THE SVS WIfI CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM

An improved understanding of the underlying disease
and advances in therapy, particularly endovascular procedures, has rendered existing classiﬁcation schemes obsolete
while simultaneously highlighting the need for a more
comprehensive system. The concept of a single dichotomous hemodynamic cutoff point for CLI no longer applies
to the majority of patients encountered in current clinical
practice; various degrees of ischemia may prove “critical”
depending on the overall status of the limb. It has become
clear that limb ischemia does not have sharp cutoff points
but consists of a gradual spectrum in the pattern of
a sigmoidal curve (Fig). Wound healing, thus, depends
not only on the degree of ischemia, but also on the extent
and depth of the wound and the presence and severity of
infection. Thus, some patients with moderate ischemia
may heal faster with revascularization or even require it
to heal large wounds, although they do not meet current

With respect to wound categorization, both the Fontaine14 and Rutherford8 classiﬁcations of lower extremity
ischemia lack sufﬁcient detail. DFU classiﬁcations such as
perfusion, extent/size, depth/tissue loss, infection, sensation (PEDIS),43 University of Texas (UT),34 variants
of sepsis, arteriopathy, denervation (SAD),37,38,40,41 and
St Elian39 offer the beneﬁt of having been validated.
However, most DFU systems fail to provide sufﬁcient
detail with regard to perfusion status and are ulcer systems,
with no speciﬁc mention of gangrene. Gangrene increases
risk of amputation compared with ulceration.44,45,56,58,61-65
Although the Wagner classiﬁcation35,36 includes gangrene, it does not differentiate gangrene because of infection from that resulting from ischemia. It also fails to
characterize the degree of infection, ischemia, or wound
extent. Table I summarizes multiple existing classiﬁcation
systems; strengths and limitations of each system are
noted in the comments column.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

Fig. Hemodynamics and probability of healing of a diabetic foot
ulcer modiﬁed by Joseph Mills and George Andros. Adapted from:
http://iwgdf.org/consensus/peripheral-arterial-disease-and-diabetes/
CA Andersen. Noninvasive assessment of lower extremity hemodynamics in individuals with diabetes mellitus. J Vasc Surg
2010;52(Suppl):76S-80S.

Mills et al 225

spectrum, patients with signiﬁcant wounds and a systolic
AP <50 mm Hg or an ABI <0.4 are quite likely to require
revascularization to achieve wound healing and limb
salvage. These patients have ischemia grade 3, a level of
ischemia strongly associated with increased amputation
risk.26,44 However, especially in patients with diabetes
and wounds complicated by infection, correction of intermediate perfusion deﬁcits (0.4 <ABI <0.8) may speed
healing of smaller wounds, or even be required to heal
extensive wounds. Patients in this intermediate perfusion
range were classiﬁed as ischemia grades 1 and 2. If the
ABI is unreliable or incompressible, TP or TcPO2 measurements must be performed to stratify the degree of ischemia.
The latter measurements are preferred in patients with
diabetes mellitus or the elderly, when ABI measurements
may be falsely elevated because of medial calcinosis. Toe
pressures are mandatory in all patients with diabetes mellitus66-69 and alternate perfusion measurements that may
be especially applicable to patients with foot wounds,
and a spectrum of ischemia may help quantify the degree
of ischemia including pulse volume recordings, skin
perfusion pressures and quantitative indocyanine green
angiography.70

WOUND GRADES

INFECTION GRADES

In the SVS WIfI classiﬁcation system (Table II),
wounds are stratiﬁed or graded from grade 0 through
grade 3 based on size, depth, severity, and anticipated difﬁculty achieving wound healing (see clinical description in
Table II). A grade 0 patient does not have a wound. Grades
1, 2, and 3 are blended from published DFU classiﬁcation
systems, but gangrene is also included and stratiﬁed by
extent. In contrast to previous systems, WIfI also considers
the anticipated complexity of the procedure(s) required to
achieve wound healing. As shown in Table II, grade 1
wounds are characterized by minor tissue loss salvageable
with simple digital amputation or skin coverage. Grade 2
wounds are more advanced, but potentially salvageable
with multiple digital amputations or at most, a standard
transmetatarsal amputation. Extensive tissue loss that will
require amputation proximal to the level of a standard
transmetatarsal amputation (Chopart or Lisfranc) or will
require a free ﬂap or a large full thickness heel ulcer are
assigned the highest class of severity, grade 3. Advanced
gangrene upon presentation that precludes salvage of
a functional foot is excluded from classiﬁcation (stage 5;
Tables IV-VI).

The presence and severity of infection and its threat to
limb has been systematically ignored by many classiﬁcation
systems. The risk of amputation correlates directly with
increasing infection severity. Especially in patients with diabetes, infection is often the major event that prompts
hospitalization and leads to amputation; infection in the
presence of PAD dramatically increases risk.34,53,54 The
IDSA classiﬁcation system is a clinical one that does not
require complex imaging.42 A longitudinal study of 1666
persons with diabetes conﬁrmed increased risk for amputation (P < .001), higher-level amputation (P < .001), and
lower extremity-related hospitalization (P < .001) with
increasing infection severity based on IDSA classiﬁcation.46
IDSA class 2 and 3 infections in particular markedly
increased hospitalization and amputation rates from negligible to the 50%-80% range. Both the Eurodiale53,54 and
Circulase trial11 data conﬁrm that infection is frequently
the trigger to amputation in patients with a threatened
limb. Infection appears to be especially detrimental in
patients with PAD compared with those with normal
perfusion. In fact, the combination of infection and PAD
in the Eurodiale study tripled the likelihood of wound nonhealing.54 Infection can augment the need for perfusion
both by increased metabolic activity and small vessel
thrombosis attributable to angiotoxic enzymes. Worsening
severity of ischemia likely further increases amputation risk
in the presence of infection, although the severity of
ischemia was not speciﬁed in Eurodiale. Despite the clear
importance of infection in the pathway toward major
limb amputation in patients with lower extremity wounds
and PAD, infection is not even mentioned in the TASC,
Rutherford, or Fontaine classiﬁcation systems. Therefore,
we adapted the IDSA system into WIfI (Table II). The

ISCHEMIA GRADES
Ischemia in many DFU schemes is deﬁned as an
ABI <0.8 and is considered as a simpliﬁed 6 variable
without gradations of severity. Multiple studies suggest
that patients with ABI >0.8 are at lower risk for amputation and unlikely to require revascularization to achieve
healing.34,44,54 In these patients, wound and infection
severity are the major determinants of amputation risk.
Patients with ABI >0.8 were therefore classiﬁed as
ischemia grade 0. At the other end of the perfusion

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

226 Mills et al

Table II. Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Threatened Limb (SVS WIfI) classiﬁcation system
I. Wound
II. Ischemia
III. foot Infection
W I fI score
W: Wound/clinical category
SVS grades for rest pain and wounds/tissue loss (ulcers and gangrene):
0 (ischemic rest pain, ischemia grade 3; no ulcer) 1 (mild) 2 (moderate) 3 (severe)

Grade

Ulcer

Gangrene

0
No ulcer
Clinical description: ischemic rest pain (requires typical symptoms þ ischemia grade 3); no wound.

No gangrene

1

Small, shallow ulcer(s) on distal leg
No gangrene
or foot; no exposed bone, unless limited
to distal phalanx
Clinical description: minor tissue loss. Salvageable with simple digital amputation (1 or 2 digits) or skin coverage.
2

Deeper ulcer with exposed bone, joint or
Gangrenous changes limited to digits
tendon; generally not involving the heel;
shallow heel ulcer, without calcaneal involvement
Clinical description: major tissue loss salvageable with multiple ($3) digital amputations or standard TMA 6 skin coverage.
3

Extensive, deep ulcer involving forefoot and/or
Extensive gangrene involving forefoot
midfoot; deep, full thickness heel ulcer 6
and /or midfoot; full thickness
heel necrosis 6 calcaneal involvement
calcaneal involvement
Clinical description: extensive tissue loss salvageable only with a complex foot reconstruction or nontraditional TMA (Chopart or Lisfranc);
ﬂap coverage or complex wound management needed for large soft tissue defect
TMA, Transmetatarsal amputation.
I: Ischemia
Hemodynamics/perfusion: Measure TP or TcPO2 if ABI incompressible (>1.3)
SVS grades 0 (none), 1 (mild), 2 (moderate), and 3 (severe).

Grade
0
1
2
3

ABI
$0.80
0.6-0.79
0.4-0.59
#0.39

Ankle systolic pressure

TP, TcPO2

>100 mm Hg
70-100 mm Hg
50-70 mm Hg
<50 mm Hg

$60 mm Hg
40-59 mm Hg
30-39 mm Hg
<30 mm Hg

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; PVR, pulse volume recording; SPP, skin perfusion pressure; TP, toe pressure; TcPO2, transcutaneous oximetry.
Patients with diabetes should have TP measurements. If arterial calciﬁcation precludes reliable ABI or TP measurements, ischemia should be documented by
TcPO2, SPP, or PVR. If TP and ABI measurements result in different grades, TP will be the primary determinant of ischemia grade.
Flat or minimally pulsatile forefoot PVR ¼ grade 3.
fI: foot Infection:
SVS grades 0 (none), 1 (mild), 2 (moderate), and 3 (severe: limb and/or life-threatening)
SVS adaptation of Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot (IWGDF) perfusion, extent/size,
depth/tissue loss, infection, sensation (PEDIS) classiﬁcations of diabetic foot infection

Clinical manifestation of infection

SVS

IDSA/PEDIS
infection severity

No symptoms or signs of infection
Infection present, as deﬁned by the presence of at least 2 of the following
items:
d Local swelling or induration
d Erythema >0.5 to #2 cm around the ulcer
d Local tenderness or pain
d Local warmth
d Purulent discharge (thick, opaque to white, or sanguineous secretion)
______________________________________________________________
Local infection involving only the skin and the subcutaneous tissue
(without involvement of deeper tissues and without systemic signs as
described below).
Exclude other causes of an inﬂammatory response of the skin (eg, trauma,
gout, acute Charcot neuro-osteoarthropathy, fracture, thrombosis,
venous stasis)

0

Uninfected

1

Mild

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

Mills et al 227

Table II. Continued.
Clinical manifestation of infection

SVS

IDSA/PEDIS
infection severity

Local infection (as described above) with erythema >2 cm, or involving
structures deeper than skin and subcutaneous tissues (eg, abscess,
osteomyelitis, septic arthritis, fasciitis), and
No systemic inﬂammatory response signs (as described below)
Local infection (as described above) with the signs of SIRS, as manifested
by two or more of the following:
d Temperature >38 or <36 C
d Heart rate >90 beats/min
d Respiratory rate >20 breaths/min or PaCO2 <32 mm Hg
d White blood cell count >12,000 or <4000 cu/mm or 10% immature
(band) forms

2

Moderate

3

Severea

PACO2, Partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide; SIRS, systemic inﬂammatory response syndrome.
a
Ischemia may complicate and increase the severity of any infection. Systemic infection may sometimes manifest with other clinical ﬁndings, such as hypotension, confusion, vomiting, or evidence of metabolic disturbances, such as acidosis, severe hyperglycemia, new-onset azotemia.
From Lipsky et al.42

Table II. a, Key summary points for use of Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Threatened Limb (SVS WIfI)
classiﬁcation system
1. Table II, the full system, is to be used for initial, baseline classiﬁcation of all patients with ischemic rest pain or wounds within the
spectrum of chronic lower limb ischemia when reporting outcomes, regardless of form of therapy. The system is not to be employed for
patients with vasospastic and collagen vascular disease, vasculitis, Buerger’s disease, acute limb ischemia, or acute trauma (mangled
extremity).
2. Patients with and without diabetes mellitus should be differentiated into separate categories for subsequent outcomes analysis.
a. Presence of neuropathy (6) should be noted when possible in patients with diabetes in long-term studies of wound healing, ulcer
recurrence, and amputation, since the presence of neuropathy (loss of protective sensation and motor neuropathic deformity)
inﬂuences recurrence rate.
3. In the Wound (W) classiﬁcation, depth takes priority over size. Although we recommend that a wound, if present, be measured,
a shallow, 8-cm2 ulcer with no exposed tendon or bone would be classiﬁed as grade 1.
a. If a study of wound healing vs Wound (W) grade were performed, wounds would be classiﬁed by depth, and could also be
categorized by size: small (<5 cm2), medium (5-10 cm2), and large (>10 cm2)
4. TPs are preferred for classiﬁcation of ischemia (I) in patients with diabetes mellitus, since ABI is often falsely elevated. TcPO2, SPP, and
ﬂat forefoot PVRs are also acceptable alternatives if TP is unavailable. All reports of outcomes with or without revascularization therapy
require measurement and classiﬁcation of baseline perfusion.
5. In reporting the outcomes of revascularization procedures, patients should be restaged after control of infection, if present, and/or after
any debridement, if performed, prior to revascularization (Table IV).
a. Group a patients: no infection within 30 days, or simple infection controlled with antibiotics alone
b. Group b patients: had infection that required incision and drainage or debridement/partial amputation to control
ABI, Ankle-brachial index; PVR, pulse volume recording; SPP, skin perfusion pressure; TcPO2, transcutaneous oximetry; TP, toe pressure.

four grades are based on simple clinical observations. This
system has been validated and correlates with amputation
risk. It should be noted that grade 3 infections are characterized by systemic or metabolic toxicity and are associated
with a very high risk of early amputation.
CLINICAL APPLICATION OF SVS WIfI
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM: TARGET PATIENT
POPULATION
The intent of this new WIfI classiﬁcation system is for it to
be applied to patients across a broad spectrum of lower
extremity atherosclerotic occlusive disease of varying severity
and distribution (Table II, a). It includes patients with ischemic
rest pain in addition to tissue loss with coexisting chronic PAD.
The following conditions are excluded: patients with pure
venous ulcers; acute limb ischemia; acute “trash” foot; or
ischemia due to emboli, acute trauma/mangled extremity;

and those with wounds related to nonatherosclerotic conditions such as vasculitis, collagen vascular disease, Buerger’s
disease, neoplasm, dermatoses, and radiation.
The target population for this system includes any
patient with:
Ischemic rest pain, typically in the forefoot with conﬁrmatory, objective hemodynamic studies (ABI <0.40,
AP <50, TP <30, TcPO2 <20)
d A diabetic foot ulcer
d Nonhealing lower limb or foot ulceration of at least
2 weeks duration
d Gangrene involving any portion of the foot or lower
limb.
d

Since each of the three categories (wound, ischemia,
and foot infection) has four grades of severity, the system

228 Mills et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

Table III. Deﬁnition of terms
I. Components: The Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Threatened Limb (SVS WIfI) classiﬁcation system has three
components:
Wound
Ischemia
Foot Infection
II. Grades: Each component is graded on a spectrum from 0 (none) to 1 (mild) to 2 (moderate) to 3 (severe) according to the criteria
outlined in Table II.
III. Classes: Based on grades assigned to each of the three individual components, a WIfI class is assigned.
Example 1: A patient with ischemic rest pain, an ABI of 0.30, no wound, and no signs of infection would be classiﬁed as Wound 0 Ischemia
3 foot Infection 0 or WIfI 030.
Example 2: A 55-year-old man with diabetes, dry gangrene of two toes, and a <2-cm rim of cellulitis at the base of the toes, but without
systemic or metabolic toxicity has absent pedal pulses. The ABI is 1.5. The toe pressure is 35 mm Hg. He would be classiﬁed as Wound 2
Ischemia 2 foot Infection 1 or WIfI 221.
IV. Stages: The four clinical stages were derived by Delphi Consensus (Table IV) and will require prospective validation. This process is
intended to be iterative and is meant to reduce the number of clinical stages to a manageable and meaningful number; the stages should
correlate with amputation risk (natural history of limb with that given clinical stage in the absence of revascularization). Using the same
patient examples as above:
Example 1: A patient with ischemic rest pain, an ABI of 0.30, no wound, and no signs of infection would be classiﬁed as: Wound
0 Ischemia 3 foot Infection 0 or WIfI 030. The consensus clinical stage is 2 (low) with respect to risk of major limb amputation at one
year.
Example 2: A 55-year-old man with diabetes, dry gangrene of two toes, and a <2-cm rim of cellulitis at the base of the toes, but without
systemic or metabolic toxicity has absent pedal pulses. The ABI is 1.5. The toe pressure is 35 mm Hg. He would be classiﬁed as Wound 2
Ischemia 2 foot Infection 1 or WIfI 221. The clinical stage would be 4 (high risk of amputation).
ABI, Ankle-brachial index.

produces a grid with 64 theoretically possible clinical
combinations (WIfI classes). To deﬁne initially the system’s
potential clinical applicability, a Delphi consensus process
was carried out by members of the SVS Lower Extremity
Guidelines Committee and recognized experts in the ﬁeld
of chronic limb ischemia. This 12-member group was
instructed to use the classiﬁcation system to address two
questions. First, what is the perceived risk of amputation
for each possible combination? Second, what is the
perceived beneﬁt from revascularization for each possible
combination? This exercise was designed to deﬁne stages
of disease that might subsequently be useful for clinical
decision-making and prospective studies.

AMPUTATION RISK ACCORDING TO WIfI
CATEGORY
Each member of the Delphi Consensus group was asked
to assign a limb threat clinical stage to each of the 64 theoretical patient combinations that would correlate with risk of
amputation (stage 1 - very low; stage 2 - low; stage 3 moderate; and stage 4 - high). The results of this Delphi
Consensus process are depicted in Table IV, a, which represents the consensus of the 12-member panel with respect to
their assessments of the one-year risk of amputation with
medical therapy alone for each of the 64 possible presentations. In general, risk of amputation was believed to increase
as one proceeds down and to the right (increasing severity of
each of the individual WIfI score components). Lesser grades
of ischemia (below that which corresponds to the current
deﬁnition of CLI) were uniformly believed to contribute
to an increased risk of amputation as wound complexity
and degree of infection increased. Inter-rater reliability was
assessed by the intraclass correlation (ICC) using a twoway random effects model evaluating absolute agreement.71

The ICC was high with a single measures coefﬁcient of .81
and an average measures coefﬁcient of .98.
REVASCULARIZATION BENEFIT ACCORDING
TO WIfI CATEGORY
Distinct from the anticipated risk of amputation, an
important question for the vascular specialist is to assess
the potential beneﬁt from successful revascularization,
which is strongly inﬂuenced by the degree of perfusion
beneﬁt as well as the hemodynamic requirements for
successful foot salvage. To address this question, we had
to assume that any infection, if present, had been
controlled. This question differs from the risk of amputation, since large complex wounds and severe infection
may lead to amputation even in the absence of signiﬁcant
ischemia. Conversely, minor wounds or wounds with
mild/moderate ischemia may heal with adequate debridement and wound care alone. Accordingly, we undertook
a similar Delphi process to classify the WIfI combinations
into four groups (very low, low, moderate, and high) based
on projected beneﬁt from anatomic revascularizationd
from no (or very low) beneﬁt to greatest potential beneﬁt.
In this process, certain presentations at the extremes of
amputation risk (eg, rest pain alone vs extensive infection
without ischemia) are classiﬁed quite differently than in
the disease staging system above (Table IV, a) that focused
on amputation risk. Table IV, b is quite informative for
determining the likelihood a given patient will require
revascularization. As with amputation risk, the ICC71 was
slightly lower but still quite acceptable with a single
measures coefﬁcient of .76 and an average measures coefﬁcient of .97.
The 16 possible combinations in ischemia 0 are
unlikely to require revascularization. The spectrum of
ischemia requiring vascular intervention is, thus, reduced

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

Mills et al 229

Table IV. a and b, Risk/beneﬁt: Clinical stages by expert consensus
a, Estimate risk of amputation at 1 year for each combination

W-0
W-1
W-2
W-3

Ischemia – 0
VL VL L
VL VL L
L
L
M
M M H
fI- fI- fI0
1
2

M
M
H
H
fI3

Ischemia – 1
VL L M
VL L M
M M H
H
H H
fI- fI- fI0
1 2

Ischemia – 2
L L M
L M H
M H H
H H H
fI- fI- fI0 1 2

H
H
H
H
fI3

H
H
H
H
fI3

Ischemia – 3
L M M
M M H
H H H
H H H
fI- fI- fI0 1 2

H
H
H
H
fI3

b, Estimate likelihood of benefit of/requirement for revascularization (assuming
infection can be controlled first)

W-0
W-1
W-2
W-3

Ischemia – 0
VL VL VL
VL VL VL
VL VL VL
VL VL VL
f-0 fI- fI1
2

VL
VL
VL
VL
fI3

Ischemia – 1
VL L L
L
M M
M M H
M M M
fI- fI- fI0
1 2

Ischemia – 2
L L M
M H H
H H H
H H H
fI- fI- fI0 1 2

M
M
H
H
fI3

M
H
H
H
fI3

Ischemia – 3
M H H
H H H
H H H
H H H
fI- fI- fI0 1 2

H
H
H
H
fI3

fI, foot Infection; I, Ischemia; W, Wound.
Premises:
1. Increase in wound class increases risk of amputation (based on PEDIS, UT, and
other wound classification systems)
2. PAD and infection are synergistic (Eurodiale); infected wound + PAD increases
likelihood revascularization will be needed to heal wound
3. Infection 3 category (systemic/metabolic instability): moderate to high-risk of
amputation regardless of other factors (validated IDSA guidelines)
Four classes: for each box, group combination into one of these four classes
Very low = VL = clinical stage 1
Low = L = clinical stage 2
Moderate = M = clinical stage 3
High = H = clinical stage 4
Clinical stage 5 would signify an unsalvageable foot

IDSA, Infectious Disease Society of America; PAD, peripheral artery disease; PEDIS, perfusion, extent/size, depth/tissue loss, infection, sensation; UT,
University of Texas.

to 48 possibilities. Quick perusal will note that many theoretically possible combinations are clinically unlikely, so the
actual number of probable scenarios is far more limited.
Most of the patients in the ischemia 1 and 2 blocks of 16
combinations suffer from “situational ischemia.” As wound
complexity and infection severity increase (a shift down and
to the right in each box of 16), the likelihood that revascularization will be required increases. In the ischemia 3 category, small wounds without infection may not always
require vascular intervention, but such an intervention
may speed healing. Again, shifts down and to the right
within this box increase the odds that vascular intervention
will be required; it likely will be mandatory for W 2 and
W 3 patients, especially in the presence of infection.
Since this is a new, updated system, we emphasize that
these consensus-based clinical stages will require rigorous
validation in large datasets that are generalizable to the

broad heterogeneous chronic limb ischemia population.
Such validation could be done as part of a registry, and
plans are underway to begin this process within the SVS
Vascular Quality Initiative.72 We anticipate that within
2 years, we will be able to conﬁrm or re-assign patients
by WIfI classiﬁcation to the appropriate limb threat clinical
stage based on such registry data. It is expected that validated limb threat stages will be found to correlate with
amputation risk (Supplementary Fig 1, online only).
APPLICATION OF WIfI STRATIFICATION
The following examples demonstrate the application of
WIfI in the clinical setting.
Example 1. A patient with ischemic rest pain, an ABI
of 0.30, no wounds, and no signs of infection would be
classiﬁed as Wound 0 Ischemia 3 foot Infection 0 or
WIfI 030. The consensus clinical stage is 2 (low) with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

230 Mills et al

Table V. Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) reclassiﬁcation after debridement and control of infection (if
required)
The complete WIfI system is used to classify the patient at the time of initial presentation. In some patients with severe infection, the patient
might require urgent drainage and debridement prior to objective documentation of foot perfusion. In such cases, the initial ischemia
status would be listed as U (Unknown). The ischemia grade would be added after drainage of infection. If ischemia was detected and
measured, but urgent drainage of infection was nonetheless required, the patient must be reclassiﬁed after control of infection prior to
revascularization. This process could be simpliﬁed as follows:
Group a: No infection within 30 days or simple infection controlled with antibiotics alone
Group b: Infection controlled, but required incision and drainage, open toe or partial forefoot amputation

Wound 0
Wound 1
Wound 2
Wound 3

Ischemia 0

Ischemia 1

Ischemia 2

VL
VL

VL

VL

Ischemia 3
a

VL, Very low beneﬁt from revascularization (unlikely to require revascularization).
a
W0 I3 (Wound 0, Ischemia 3) patients ¼ rest pain, no tissue loss; most such patients would beneﬁt from revascularization.

W0 I1, 2 ¼ have no wound, no rest pain, and do not require revascularization
The remaining 11 possible patient scenarios may require revascularization.
Some of W2 and W3 patients with I “0” may have regional perfusion abnormalities (eg, heel ulcer in patient with CKD and normal toe
pressure, but arch incomplete and heel ischemic).
Examples:
1. Patient Alpha presents with a noninfected, full-thickness, dorsal foot wound with exposed tendon and an ABI of 0.45 with a TP of
38 mm Hg.
Initial WIfI ¼ W2 I2 fI 0
The patient does not respond to simple wound care, so a revascularization is planned.
Simpliﬁed reclassiﬁcation prior to revascularization is:
W2 I2 (a)
2. Patient Beta presents with ABI 0.45, TP 38 mm Hg, and what appears to be a shallow dorsal foot ulcer with induration and >2 cm of
peri-wound cellulitis. Purulence is expressed from the wound and at exploration, an abscess in the tendon sheath requires open drainage,
debridement:
Initial WIfI ¼ W1 I2 fI 2
The cellulitis and purulence resolve after incision, drainage and 3 days of antibiotic therapy, but the wound is now full thickness with
exposed tendon:
Simpliﬁed reclassiﬁcation prior to revascularization is:
W2 I2 (b)
ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CKD, chronic kidney disease; TP, toe pressure.

respect to risk of major limb amputation at one year. The
anticipated beneﬁt of revascularization, however, is high.
Example 2. A 55-year-old man with diabetes, dry
gangrene of two toes and a <2-cm rim of cellulitis at the
base of the toes, but without systemic or metabolic toxicity
has absent pedal pulses. The ABI is 1.5. The TP is 35 mm
Hg. He would be classiﬁed as Wound 2 Ischemia 2 foot
Infection 1 or WIfI 221. The clinical stage would be 4
(high risk of amputation); the anticipated beneﬁt of
revascularization is also high.
Example 3. A 44-year-old woman without a previous
diagnosis of diabetes presents to the emergency room with
systemic sepsis, a fever of 39.5 C, an elevated white blood
cell count of 26,000, and serum blood glucose of 600. She
has a 6-cm full thickness wound on the plantar aspect of the
forefoot with crepitus. The dorsalis pedis pulse is palpable,
and the ABI is 1.08. She would be classiﬁed as follows: W2
I0 fI 3 or WIfI 203. The clinical stage is 4 (high risk of
amputation), but the anticipated beneﬁt of revascularization is low.
In this exercise we also emphasize that clinicians should
reclassify the limb at the time of planned revascularization,

since control of sepsis or prior foot debridement may have
altered the WIfI classiﬁcation from the time of initial presentation. The reclassiﬁcation process after surgical debridement can be simpliﬁed (Table V). It is important to note
that this process is quite similar to the restaging that occurs
during and after evaluation and treatment for cancer. Thus,
a small superﬁcial wound (W 1) could be reclassiﬁed as a W
2 or W 3 after surgical debridement, but before revascularization is attempted. Two patient scenarios in Table V illustrate this process. Supplementary Fig 2 (online only)
provides clinical examples of wound grades.
SUGGESTED NEXT STEPS
The SVS WIfI classiﬁcation system is a ﬁrst critical step
toward re-examining the evaluation and treatment of
patients with a spectrum of lower extremity arterial disease.
It is intended to be an iterative process with the goal of
more precisely stratifying patients according to their initial
disease burden, analogous to TNM cancer staging, but not
to dictate therapy.
One important potential application of this system is
for improved clinical trials design. Appropriate stratiﬁcation

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

Mills et al 231

Table VI. Clinical stages (major limb amputation risk)
based on Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI)
classiﬁcation
Risk of
amputation

Proposed
clinical stages

Very low

Stage 1

Low

Stage 2

Moderate

Stage 3

High

Stage 4

WIfI spectrum score
W0 I0 fI0,1
W0 I1 fI0
W1 I0 fI0,1
W1 I1 fI 0
W0 I0 fI2
W0 I1 fI1
W0 I2 fI0,1
Wo I3 fI0
W1 I0 fI2
W1 I1 fI1
W1 I2 ﬁ0
W2 I0 fI0/1
W0 I0 fI3
W0 I2 fI1,2
W0 I3 fI1,2
W1 I0 fI3
W1 I1 fI2
W1 I2 fI1
W1 I3 fI0,1
W2 I0 fI2
W2 I 1 fI0,1
W2 I2 ﬁ0
W3 I0 ﬁ0,1
W0 I1,2,3 fI3
W1 I1 fI3
W1 I2,3 fI2,3
W2 I0 ﬁ3
W2 I1 fI2,3
W2 I2 ﬁ1,2,3
W2 I3 fI0,1,2,3
W3 I0 fI2,3
W3 I1,2,3 fI0,1,2,3

Clinical stage 5 would signify an unsalvageable foot (most often because of
wound extent or severity of infection).

of patients by clinical stage should yield a better platform for testing the impact of new therapies in
randomized trials.73 For example, trials targeting reduction
in amputation within 1 year as a primary end point of
a revascularization strategy might be focused on the
subjects who overlap clinical class 4 and moderate/high
anticipated beneﬁt for revascularization.
The WIfI classiﬁcation system is not meant to function
as a stand-alone clinical decision-making tool. Patient risk
factors and comorbidities also play a major part in selecting
the best therapy. Existing proposed comorbidity indices
based on the Prevent III trial,27 the FinnVasc registry,63
the Eurodiale study,54,55 the BASIL trial,24-26 the Greenville LEGS score,62 and other sources need to be carefully
analyzed and resynthesized to create a comorbidity index
that could be used to guide appropriate therapy. Such
a comorbidity index could also be validated by utilizing
the strengths of the SVS Vascular Quality Initiative.72
Additionally, as we move forward, the need for a new
and simpler anatomic classiﬁcation system that correlates
with outcomes after open bypass or endovascular therapy
will become increasingly clear. The scheme would need

to correlate with outcomes and not practice patterns. We
envision that clinical decision making and outcomes
comparisons between alternative treatments would be facilitated by deﬁning subgroups of patients across three
distinct coordinatesdlimb severity (SVS WIfI), patient
risk (comorbidity index), and anatomic severity. Such
a properly stratiﬁed, three-dimensional matrix would lead
to improved clinical trial designs73 and ultimately better
evidence-based care for patients with chronic lower
extremity ischemia and/or tissue compromise.
Finally, attention should be directed toward redeﬁning
outcomes. Patency, limb salvage, and amputation-free
survival are not the only criteria for success. The SVS has
initiated this process with the publication of objective performance goals.74 Many authors have also begun to examine
what outcomes would look like from a patient-centered viewpoint (ie, functional outcome).29,75-88 However, these
outcome measures will only prove applicable if the initial
disease burden has been adequately characterized and
stratiﬁed.
The authors wish to gratefully acknowledge the efforts
of Thomas Biester and Andrew Jones (psychometricians at
the American Board of Surgery) for performing the ICC
statistics, as well as the following members of the SVS
Lower Extremity Guidelines Committee and other invited
limb salvage experts for reviewing the basis for this document during its conception and preparation and for
contributing to the Delphi Consensus process: Daniel
Clair, Jack Cronenwett, Patrick J. Geraghty, Robert Hinchliffe, James F. McKinsey, Gregory L. Moneta, Richard
J. Powell, Amy B. Reed and Spence M. Taylor.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: JM, MC, DA, ANS, GA
Analysis and interpretation: JM, MC, DA, FP, AS, ANS,
GA
Data collection: JM, MC, DA
Writing the article: JM, MC
Critical revision of the article: JM, MC, DA, FP, AS, ANS,
GA
Final approval of the article: JM, MC, DA, FP, AS, ANS,
GA
Statistical analysis: JM
Obtained funding: Not applicable
Overall responsibility: JM
REFERENCES
1. Bell PRF, Charlesworth D, DePalma RG, Eastcott HHG, Eklöf B,
Jamieson CW, et al. The deﬁnition of critical ischemia of a limb.
Working Party of the International Vascular Symposium. Br J Surg
1982;69(Suppl):S2.
2. Criqui MH. Peripheral arterial disease and subsequent cardiovascular
mortality: a strong and consistent association. Circulation 1990;82:
2246-7.
3. Caro J, Migliaccio-Walle K, Ishak KJ, Proskorovsky I. The morbidity
and mortality following a diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease:
long-term follow-up of a large database. BMC Cardiovasc Disord
2005;5:14.

232 Mills et al

4. Brownrigg JRW, Davey J, Hoilt PJ, Davis WA, Thompson MM,
Ray KK, et al. The association of ulceration of the foot with cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in patients with diabetes: a metaanalysis. Diabetologia 2012;55:2906-12.
5. Criqui MH, Langer RD, Fronek A, Feigelson HS, Klauber MR,
McCann TJ, et al. Mortality over a period of 10 years in patients with
peripheral arterial-disease. N Engl J Med 1992;326:381-6.
6. McDermott MM, Feinglass J, Slavensky R, Pearce WH. The anklebrachial index as a predictor of survival in patients with peripheral
arterial disease. J Gen Intern Med 1994;9:445-9.
7. McGrath MA, Graham AR, Hill DA, Lord RSA, Tracy GD. The
natural history of chronic leg ischemia. World J Surg 1983;7:314-8.
8. Rutherford RB, Baker JD, Ernst C, Johnston KW, Porter JM, Ahn S,
et al. Recommended standards for reports dealing with lower extremity
ischemia: revised version. J Vasc Surg 1997;26:517-38.
9. Dormandy JA, Rutherford RB. Management of peripheral arterial
disease (PAD). TASC Working Group: TransAtlantic Inter-Society
Consensus (TASC). J Vasc Surg 2000;31(Suppl):S1-296.
10. Setacci C, Ricco JB, Apelqvist J, Becker F, Cao P. Management of
critical limb ischemia and diabetic foot. Eur J Vas Endovas Surg
2011;42(S2):S1-90.
11. Brass EP, Anthony R, Dormandy J, Hiatt WR, Jiao J, Nakanishi A,
et al. Parenteral therapy with lipo-ecraprost, a lipid-based formulation
of a PGE1 analog, does not alter six-month outcomes in patients with
critical leg ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:752-9.
12. Marston WA, Davies SW, Armstrong B, Farber MA, Mendes RC,
Fulton JJ, et al. Natural history of limbs with arterial insufﬁciency and
chronic ulceration treated without revascularization. J Vasc Surg
2006;44:108-14.
13. Elgzyri T, Larsson J, Thörne J, Eriksson KF, Apelqvist J. Outcome of
ischemic foot ulcer in diabetic patients who had no invasive vascular
intervention. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;46:110-7.
14. Fontaine R, Kim M, Kieny R. [Surgical treatment of peripheral circulation disorders.] Helv Chir Acta 1954;21:499-533.
15. Mills JL. Open bypass and endoluminal therapy: complementary
techniques for revascularization in diabetic patients with critical limb
ischemia. 5th International Symposium on the Diabetic Foot. Diabetes/Metabolism, Research and Reviews. Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2008;24(Suppl 1):S34-9.
16. Ihnat DM, Mills JL. Current assessment of endovascular therapy for
infrainguinal arterial occlusive disease in patients with diabetes. J Vasc
Surg 2010;52:92S-5S.
17. Hinchliffe RJ, Andros J, Apelqvist J, Bakker K, Fiedrichs S, Lammer J,
et al. A systematic review of the effectiveness of revascularization of the
ulcerated foot in patients with diabetes and peripheral arterial disease.
Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2012;28(Suppl 1):179-217.
18. Powell RJ, Simons M, Mendelsohn FO, Daniel G, Henry TD, Koga M,
et al. Results of a double-blind, placebo-controlled study to assess the
safety of intramuscular injection of hepatocyte growth factor plasmid to
improve limb perfusion in patients with critical limb ischemia. Circulation 2008;118:58-65.
19. Tateishi-Yuyama E, Matsubara H, Murohara T, Ikeda U, Shintani S,
Masaki H, et al. Therapeutic angiogenesis for patients with limb
ischaemia by autologous transplantation of bone-marrow cells: a pilot
study and a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2002;360:427-35.
20. Benoit E, O’Donnell TF, Iafrati MD, Ascher E, Bandyk DF,
Hallett JW, et al. The role of amputation as an outcome measure in
cellular therapy for critical limb ischemia: implications for clinical trial
design. JTM 2011;9:165.
21. Powell RJ. Update on clinical trials evaluating the effect of biologic
therapy in patients with critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:264-6.
22. Taylor SM, York JW, Cull DL, Kalbaugh CA, Cass AL, Langan EM.
Clinical success using patient-oriented outcome measures after lower
extremity bypass and endovascular intervention for ischemic tissue loss.
J Vasc Surg 2009;50:534-41.
23. Armstrong DG, Cohen K, Courric S, Bharara M, Marston W. Diabetic
foot ulcers and vascular insufﬁciency: our population has changed, but
our methods have not. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2011;52:1591-5.
24. Bradbury AW, Ruckley CV, Fowkes FGR, Forbes JF, Gillespie I,
Adam DJ, et al. Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischemia of the

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

Leg (BASIL): multicentre, randomised controlled trial. Lancet
2005;366:1925-34.
25. Bradbury AW, Adams DJ, Bell J, Forbes JF, Gillespie I, Ruckley CV,
et al. Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischemia of the Leg (BASIL)
trial: a survival prediction model to facilitate clinical decision making.
J Vasc Surg 2010;51(5 Suppl):52S-68S.
26. Bradbury AW, Adam DJ, Bell J, Forbes JF, Fowkes FG, Gillespie I, et al.
Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischemia of the Leg (BASIL) trial:
an intention-to-treat analysis of amputation-free and overall survival in
patients randomized to a bypass surgery-ﬁrst or a balloon angioplastyﬁrst revascularization strategy. J Vasc Surg 2010;51(5 Suppl):5S-17S.
27. Conte MS, Bandyk DF, Clowes AW, Moneta GL, Seely L, Lorenz TJ,
et al. Results of PREVENT III: a multicenter, randomized trial of
edifoligide for the prevention of vein graft failure in lower extr rgery.
J Vasc Surg 2006;43:742-50.
28. Faglia E, Dalla Paola L, Clerici G, Clerissi J, Graziani L, Fusaro M,
et al. Peripheral angioplasty as the ﬁrst-choice revascularizatuion
procedure in diabetic patients with critical limb ischemia: prospective
study of 993 consecutive patients hospitalized and followed between
1999 and 2003. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;29:620-7.
29. Goshima KR, Mills JL, Hughes JD. A new look at outcomes following
infrainguinal bypass surgery: Traditional reporting standards systematically underestimate the expenditure of effort required to attain limb
salvage. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:330-5.
30. Ndip A, Jude EB. Emerging evidence for neuroischemic diabetic foot
ulcers: model of care and how to adapt practice. Int J Low Ext Wounds
2009;8:82-94.
31. Norgren L, Hiatt WR, Dormandy JA, Nehler MR, Harris KA,
Fowkes FG. Inter-Society Consensus for the Management of
Peripheral Arterial Disease (TASC II). J Vasc Surg 2007;45(Suppl S):
S5-67.
32. Bollinger A, Breddin K, Hess H, Heystraten FM, Kollath J, Kontilla A,
et al. Semiquantitative assessment of lower limb atherosclerosis from
routine angiographic images. Atherosclerosis 1981;38:339-46.
33. Graziani L, Silvestro A, Bertone V, Manara E, Adreini R, Sigala A, et al.
Vascular involvement in diabetic subjects with ischemic foot ulcer:
a new morphologic categorization of disease severity. Eur J Vas
Endovasc Surg 2007;33:453-60.
34. Armstrong DG, Lavery LA, Harkless LB. Validation of a diabetic
wound classiﬁcation system. The contribution of depth, infection, and
ischemia to risk of amputation. Diabetes Care 1998;21:855-9.
35. Meggitt B. Surgical management of the diabetic foot. Br J Hosp Med
1976;16:227-32.
36. Wagner FW Jr. The dysvascular foot: a system for diagnosis and
treatment. Foot Ankle 1981;2:64-122.
37. Treece KA, Macfarlane RM, Pound N, Game FL, Jeffcoate WJ. Validation of a system of foot ulcer classiﬁcation in diabetes mellitus. Diabet
Med 2004;21:987-91.
38. Beckert S, Witte M, Wicke C, Königsrainer A, Coerper S. A new
wound-based severity score for diabetic foot ulcers: a prospective
analysis of 1000 patients. Diabetes Care 2006;29:988-92.
39. Martinez-de Jesús FR. A checklist to score healing progress of diabetic
foot ulcers. Int J Low Extrem Wounds 2010;9:74-83.
40. Macfarlane RM, Jeffcoate WJ. Classiﬁcation of diabetic foot ulcers: the
S(AD) SAD system. Diabetic Foot 1999;2:123-31.
41. Beckert S, Pietsch AM, Küper M, Wicke C, Königsrainer A, Coerper S.
M.A.I.D.: a prognostic score estimating probability of healing in
chronic lower extremity wounds. Ann Surg 2009;249:677-81.
42. Lipsky BA, Berendt AR, Cornia PB, Pile JC, Peters EJG,
Armstrong DG, et al. 2012 IDSA clinical practice guideline for the
diagnosis and treatment of diabetic foot infections. Clin Infect Dis
2012;54:e132-73.
43. Schaper NC. Diabetic foot ulcer classiﬁcation system for research
purposes: a progress report on criteria for including patients in research
studies. Diabet Metab Res Rev 2004;20:S90-5.
44. Apelqvist J, Elgzyri T, Larrson J, Löndahl M, Nyberg P, Thörne J.
Factors related to outcome of neuroischemic/ischemic foot ulcer in
diabetic patients. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1582-8.
45. Gershater MA, Löndahl M, Nyberg P, Larsson J, Thörne J,
Eneroth M, et al. Complexity of factors related to outcome of

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

neuropathic and neuroischemic/ischemic diabetic foot ulcers: a cohort
study. Diabetologia 2009;52:398-407.
46. Lavery LA, Armstrong DG, Murdoch DP, Peters EJ, Lipsky BA.
Validation of the Infectious Diseases Society of America’s diabetic foot
infection classiﬁcation system. Clin Infect Dis 2007;44:562-5.
47. Varu VN, Hogg ME, Kibbe MR. Critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg
2010;51:230-41.
48. Virkkunen J, Heikkinen M, Lepantalo M, Metsanoja R, Salenius JP.
Diabetes as an independent risk factor for early postoperative complications in critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:761-7.
49. Abbott JD, Lomardrero MS, Barsness GW, Pena-Sing I, Buitrón LV,
Singh PS, et al. Ankle-brachial index and cardiovascular outcomes in
the bypass angioplasty revascularization investigation 2 diabetes trial.
Am Heart J 2012;164:585-590.e4.
50. Schaper NC, Andros G, Apelqvist J, Bakker K, Lammer J,
Lepantalo M, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of peripheral arterial
disease in diabetic patients with a foot ulcer. A progress report of the
International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot. Diabetes Metab
Res Rev 2012;28(Suppl 1):218-24.
51. Schaper NC, Andros G, Apelqvist J, Bakker K, Lammer J,
Lepantalo M, et al. Speciﬁc guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment
of peripheral arterial disease in a patient with diabetes and ulceration of
the foot. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2012;28(Suppl 1):236-7.
52. Dick F, Diehm N, Galimanis A, Husmann M, Schmidli J,
Baumgartner I. Surgical or endovascular revascularization in patients
with critical limb ischemia: inﬂuence or diabetes mellitus on clinical
outcome. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:751-61.
53. Prompers L, Huijberts M, Apelqvist J, Jude E, Piaggesi A, Bakker K,
et al. High prevalence of ischaemia, infection and serious comorbidity
in patients with diabetic foot disease in Europe. Baseline results from
the Eurodiale study. Diabetolgia 2007;50:18-25.
54. Prompers L, Schaper N, Apelqvist J, Edmonds M, Jude E, Mauricio D.
Prediction of outcome in individuals with diabetic foot ulcers: focus on
the differences between individuals with and without peripheral arterial
disease. The EURODIALE Study. Diabetologia 2008;51:747-55.
55. Lipsky BA. A report from the international consensus on diagnosing
and treating the infected diabetic foot. Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2004;20(Suppl 1):S68-77.
56. Schanzer A, Conte MS. Critical limb ischemia. Curr Treat Options
Cardiovasc Med 2010;12:214-29.
57. Feringa HH, Bax JJ, Hoeks S, van WV, Elhendy A, Karagiannis S, et al.
A prognostic risk index for long-term mortality in patients with
peripheral arterial disease. Arch Intern Med 2007;167:2482-9.
58. Wolfe JHN, Wyatt MG. Critical and sub critical ischemia. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 1997;13:578-82.
59. White JV, Rutherford RB, Ryjewski C. Chronic subcritical ischemia:
a poorly recognized stage of critical limb ischemia. Semin Vasc Surg
2007;20:62-7.
60. Karthikesalingam A, Holt PJ, Moxey P, Jones KG, Thompson MM,
Hinchliffe RJ. A systematic review of scoring systems for diabetic foot
ulcers. Diabet Med 2010;27:544-9.
61. Schanzer A, Goodney PP, Li Y, Eslami M, Cronenwett J, Messina L,
et al. Validation of the PIII CLI risk score for the prediction of
amputation-free survival in patients undergoing infrainguinal autogenous vein bypass for critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:
769-75.
62. Taylor SM, Kalbaugh CA, Gray BH, Mackrell PJ, Langan EM,
Cull DL, et al. The LEGS score: a proposed grading system to direct
treatment of chronic lower extremity ischemia. Ann Surg 2003;237:
812-8; discussion: 818-9.
63. Kechagias A, Perala J, Ylonen K, Mahar MA, Biancari F. Validation of
the Finnvasc score in infrainguinal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for critical lower limb ischemia. Ann Vasc Surg 2008;22:547-51.
64. Albäck A, Biancari F, Saarinen O, Lepäntalo M. Prediction of the
immediate outcome of femoropopliteal saphenous vein bypass by
angiographic runoff score. Eur J Vas Endovasc Surg 1998;15:220-4.
65. Taylor SM, Kalbaugh CA, Blackhurst DW, Cass AL, Trent EA,
Langan EM, et al. Determinants of functional outcome after revascularization for critical limb ischemia: an analysis of 1000 consecutive
vascular interventions. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:747-55.

Mills et al 233

66. Kalani M, Brismar K, Fagrell B, Ostergren J, Jorneskog G. Transcutaneous oxygen tension and toe blood pressure as predictors for outcome
of diabetic foot ulcers. Diab Care 1999;22:147-51.
67. DeGraaff JC, Ubbink DT, Legemate DA, Tijssen JGP, Jacobs MJHM.
Evaluation of toe pressures and transcutaneous oxygen measurements
in management of chronic critical leg ischemia: a diagnostic randomized clinical trial. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:528-34.
68. Castronuovo JJ, Adera HM, Smiell JM, Price RM. Skin perfusion
pressure measurement is valuable in the diagnosis of critical limb
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 1997;26:629-37.
69. Ballard JL, Eke CC, Bunt TJ, Killeen JD. A prospective evaluation
of transcutaneous oxygen measurements in the management of
diabetic foot problems. J Vasc Surg 1995;22:485-90; discussion:
490-2.
70. Braun JD, Trinidad-Hernandez M, Perry D, Armstrong DG, Mills JL.
Early quantitative evaluation of indocyanine green angiography in
patients with critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:1213-8.
71. McGraw KO, Wong SP. Forming inferences about some intraclass
correlation coefﬁcients. Psychol Methods 1996;1:30-46.
72. Cronenwett JL, Likosky DS, Russell MT, Eldrup-Jorgensen J,
Stanley AC, Nolan BW, et al. A regional registry for quality assurance
and improvement: the Vascular Study Group of Northern New
England (VSGNNE). J Vasc Surg 2007;46:1093-101.
73. Subherwal S, Anstrom KJ, Jones WS, Felker MG, Misra S, Conte MS,
et al. Use of alternative methodologies for evaluation of composite end
points in trials of therapies for critical limb ischemia. Am Heart J
2012;164:277-84.
74. Conte MS, Geraghty PJ, Bradbury AW, Hevelone ND, Lipsitz SR,
Moneta GL, et al. Suggested objective performance goals and clinical
trial design for evaluating catheter-based treatment of critical limb
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:1462-73.
75. Bertele V, Roncaglioni MC, Pangrazzi J, Terzian E, Tognoni G.
Clinical outcome and its predictors in 1560 patients with critical leg
ischaemia. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1999;18:401-10.
76. Chung J, Bartelson BB, Hiatt WR, Peyton BD, McLafferty RB,
Hopley CW, et al. Wound healing and functional outcomes after
infrainguinal bypass with reversed saphenous vein for critical limb
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:1183-90.
77. AbouZamzam AM, Lee RW, Moneta GL, Taylor LM, Porter JM.
Functional outcome after infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage. J Vasc
Surg 1997;25:287-95.
78. Owens CD, Ho KJ, Kim S, Schanzer A, Lin J, Matros E, et al.
Reﬁnement of survival prediction in patients undergoing lower
extremity bypass surgery: stratiﬁcation by chronic kidney disease classiﬁcation. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:944-52.
79. Thorsen H, McKenna J, Tennant A, Holstein P. Nottingham health
proﬁle scores predict the outcome and support aggressive revascularization for critical limb ischemia. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;23:
495-9.
80. Nguyen L, Lipsitz SR, Bandyk DF, Clowes AW, Moneta GL,
Belkin M, et al. Resource utilization in the treatment of critical limb
ischemia: the effect of tissue loss, comorbidities, and graft related
events. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:971-5.
81. Biancari F, Salenius JP, Heikkinen M, Luther M, Ylonen K,
Lepantalo M. Risk-scoring method for prediction of 30-day postoperative outcome after infrainguinal surgical revascularization for
critical lower-limb ischemia: a Finnvasc registry study. World J Surg
2007;31:217-27.
82. Arvela E, Söderström M, Korhonen M, Halmesmäki K, Albäck A,
Lepäntolo M, et al. Finnvasc score and modiﬁed Prevent III score
predict long-term outcome after infrainguinal surgical and endovascular revascularization for critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:
1218-25.
83. Schanzer A, Mega J, Meadows J, Samson RH, Bandyk DF, Conte MS.
Risk stratiﬁcation in critical limb ischemia: derivation and validation of
a model to predict amputation-free survival using multicenter surgical
outcomes data. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:1464-71.
84. Nicoloff AD, Taylor LM, McLafferty RB, Moneta GL, Porter JM.
Patient recovery after infrainguinal bypass grafting for limb salvage.
J Vasc Surg 1998;27:256-63.

234 Mills et al

85. Landry GJ. Functional outcome of critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg
2007;45:141A-8A.
86. Goodney PP, Likosky DS, Cronenwett JL. Predicting ambulation
status one year after lower extremity bypass. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:
1431-9.
87. Pomposelli FB Jr, Arora S, Gibbons GW, Frykberg R, Smakowski P,
Campbell DR, et al. Lower extremity arterial reconstruction in the
very elderly: successful outcome preserves not only the limb but also
residential status and ambulatory function. J Vasc Surg 1998;28:
215-25.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

88. Nguyen LL, Moneta GL, Conte MS, Bandyk DF, Clowes AW,
Seely BL. Prospective multicenter study of quality of life before and
after lower extremity vein bypass in 1404 patients with critical limb
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:977-83.
Submitted Aug 7, 2013; accepted Aug 13, 2013.

Additional material for this article may be found online
at www.jvascsurg.org.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 59, Number 1

Supplementary Fig 1 (online only). Estimated 1-year amputation risk (%) by Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) threatened limb
clinical stage.

Mills et al 234.e1

234.e2 Mills et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2014

Supplementary Fig 2 (online only). Clinical examples of Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Threatened
Limb (SVS WIfI) classiﬁcation system. A, W 1 e shallow neuroischemic ulcer. B, W 1 e shallow neuroischemic mal
perforans ulcer over ﬁrst metatarsal head. C, W 2 e deep lateral ankle ulcer with exposed tendon. D, W 2 e deep ulcer
with exposed bone and tendon after debridement and control of infection. E, W 2 e digital gangrene (salvaged with
revascularization and great toe amputation). F, W 2 e forefoot wound classiﬁed after debridement and control of
infection. G, Successful transmetatarsal amputation after control of infection and tibial bypass (same patient as F). H,
W 3 e gangrene into midfoot, ultimately salvaged with dorsalis pedis bypass and modiﬁed transmetatarsal amputation.
I, W 3 e complex, deep, full-thickness heel ulcer. J, W 3 e complex heel ulcer, prior to debridement. K, W 3 e
intraoperative view during debridement (same patient as J). L, Clinical stage 5 e unsalvageable extremity, W 3, and fI 3
with systemic inﬂammatory response syndrome.

