i An update to this article is included at the end

EDITORIAL
Global Vascular Guidelines for patients with chronic
limb-threatening ischemia
The Global Vascular Guidelines (GVGs) published in this
month’s supplement of the Journal of Vascular Surgery1
are the most comprehensive clinical practice guidelines
ever published on the management of patients with
chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI). Combined
with a new systematic review and meta-analysis,2 these
documents represent 5 years of work by an international
team of vascular specialists, each with recognized expertise in peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The guidelines
considered evidence on all therapies currently available
throughout the world to treat this important global
problem and the end result is a monumental work of
exceptional quality.
CLTI, a new term used in the guidelines instead of critical limb ischemia, is deﬁned as advanced PAD with rest
pain, gangrene, or ulceration of >2 weeks duration. The
methodology used by the writing group is critical to its
acceptance–the authors met strict standards for conﬂict
of interest and used relevant data from peer-reviewed
journals, without industry involvement, to write the
recommendations. The guidelines are evidence-based,
many supported by systematic reviews and metaanalyses, and represent the research and consensus of
all important specialties: vascular surgery; interventional
radiology; vascular medicine; interventional cardiology;
and angiology, who treat patients with CLTI. As such, in
2019, these guidelines are the gold standard document
for the management of CLTI.
Edited by Michael S. Conte, Andrew W. Bradbury, and
Philippe Kolh and authored by 48 experts, this allinclusive, 123-page document is based on data from
676 references and includes 114 recommendations on
deﬁnition, risk factors, diagnosis, staging, strategies for
revascularization, medical, endovascular, and surgical
management, nonrevascularization treatments, amputations, postprocedural care, and surveillance of
patients with CLTI. Since important studies expected
to provide level 1 evidence on management of CLTI
are still being conducted in the U.S.3 and in England,4
only nine recommendations are strong (Grade I),
supported by a high level (A) of evidence. Still, the
guidelines include important recommendations for all
physicians, health care professionals, and third-party
payors who are involved with the care of patients
with CLTI.
Author conﬂict of interest: none.
J Vasc Surg 2019;69:1S-2S
0741-5214
Copyright Ó 2019 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2019.04.469

What did we learn that should now be the standard of
care for CLTI?
First, we learned that the diagnosis of CLTI requires a
thorough history and physical examination by an experienced vascular physician, as well as combination of tests,
including noninvasive physiologic studies, followed by
either duplex imaging or cross-sectional imaging using
computed tomography angiography or magnetic
resonance angiography. Catheter angiography and intravascular ultrasound, in most cases, should be reserved to
document anatomy before treatment and should not be
used for making the diagnosis. There are many patients
with noncritical PAD and coexisting diabetes, vasculitis,
or degenerative arthritis that masquerade as CLTI; therefore, the initial evaluation should be performed in an
accredited vascular laboratory equipped with objective
hemodynamic tests to establish the diagnosis using
segmental limb and toe pressures and ankle-brachial
indices. Once the initial assessment is completed, the
guidelines endorse the Society for Vascular Surgery
Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation system that is based on
grading of Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI); it
provides the most accurate staging of CLTI.5
Second, we learned that all patients with CLTI should
receive best medical therapy, including antithrombotic,
lipid-lowering, antihypertensive and glycemic control
medications, preventive foot care and counseling on
smoking cessation, a low-fat and low-sodium diet, and
appropriate exercise.
Third, we learned that Evidence-Based Revascularization (EBR) depends on Patient risk, Limb severity, and
ANatomic complexity (PLAN). The proposed new Global
Anatomic Staging System (GLASS) replaces previously
used classiﬁcations; it deﬁnes a preferred target artery
path (TAP), estimates limb-based patency (LBP), and
establishes stages of complexity for interventions. GLASS
is used to determine the likelihood of limb salvage and
the best route to achieve it.
Fourth, we learned that access to perform both invasive
treatments, endovascular procedures and open surgery,
is required to appropriately treat these patients. The old
adage “when your only tool is a hammer, the whole
world looks like a nail” certainly applies to the management of CLTI. Considering only one approach may
reduce the likelihood of successful treatment and it
may even expose patients to ineffective or inappropriately invasive procedures. Having an autogenous saphenous vein available favors surgical bypass in advanced
CLTI, while endovascular interventions are preferred
for high-risk patients with less complex anatomy.
1S

2S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Lawrence and Gloviczki

June Supplement 2019

Long-term limb surveillance after any revascularization is
strongly recommended.
Fifth, the guidelines address the current lack of
evidence supporting nonrevascularization therapies,
including cell-based and gene therapies, spinal cord
stimulation, pneumatic compression, prostanoids, and
hyperbaric oxygen treatment.
Finally, since most patients with CLTI have tissue loss,
either from an ischemic ulcer or gangrene, many
patients are not fully ambulatory and are deconditioned.
They often require wound care, amputations, and rehabilitation after revascularization. Consequently, vascular
specialists who manage CLTI must have an understanding of wound care and amputations and either be able
to perform these procedures or have immediate access
to them.
The authors of this study, representing the Society for
Vascular Surgery, the European Society for Vascular Surgery, and the World Federation of Vascular Societies, are
to be congratulated for conducting a comprehensive
review of the literature, adhering to established principles of writing evidence-based recommendations, and
providing a document that should be used by all
vascular specialists who treat patients with CLTI, irrespective of their specialty. The authors and all sponsoring
societies need to be committed to revising and updating

the document as new procedures and information
become available, particularly after the multidisciplinary
prospective randomized trials that are in progress are
completed.

Peter F. Lawrence, MD
Peter Gloviczki, MD
Editors, Journal of Vascular Surgery Publications

REFERENCES
1. Conte MS, Bradbury AW, Kolh P, White JV, Dick F, Fitridge R,
et al. Global vascular guideline on the management of chronic
limb-threatening ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2019;69(Suppl):3S-125S.
2. Almasri J, Adusumalli J, Asi N, Lakis S, Alsawas M, Prokop LJ,
et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of revascularization outcomes of infrainguinal chronic limb-threatening
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:624-33.
3. Farber A, Rosenﬁeld K, Siami S, Strong S, Menard M. The BESTCLI trial is nearing the ﬁnish line and promises to be worth the
wait. J Vasc Surg 2019;69:470-81.
4. Popplewell MA, Davies H, Jarrett H, Bate G, Grant M, Patel S,
et al. Bypass versus angioplasty in severe ischaemia of the leg
- 2 (BASIL-2) trial: study protocol for a randomised controlled
trial. Trials 2016;17:11. doi: 10.1186/s13063-015-1114-2.
5. Mills JL, Conte MS, Armstrong DG, Pomposelli F, Schanzer A,
Sidawy AN, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System: risk stratiﬁcation based on Wound, Ischemia and foot Infection (WIfI).
J Vasc Surg 2014;59:220-34.

Update
Journal of Vascular Surgery
Volume 70, Issue 2, August 2019, Page 662
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2019.06.101

CORRECTION
In the July 2018 issue of the Journal of Vascular Surgery, the article by Jun Yan Wee et al (Jun Yan Wee I, Mohamed
IH, Patel A, Choong AMTL. A systematic review and meta-analysis of one-stage versus two-stage brachiobasilic arteriovenous ﬁstula creation. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:285-97) requires some text updates as listed below in boldface.
Abstract
Results: The systematic search revealed a total of 242 publications for possible inclusion. On the basis of title and
abstract review, two randomized controlled trials and nine case-cohort series ﬁt our inclusion criteria. There were
no statistically signiﬁcant differences in failure rates (pooled risk ratio [RR], 1.10; 95% conﬁdence interval [CI],
0.79-1.55; P ¼ .25), 1-year primary patency rates (RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 0.83-2.06; P ¼ 0.24), 1-year secondary patency rates
(RR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.54-1.77), 2-year primary patency rates (RR, 1.68; 95% CI, 0.99-2.83; P [ .05), and 2-year secondary patency rates (RR, 1.19; 95% CI, 0.54-2.63; P ¼ .67) between both groups. However, the two-stage procedure had
signiﬁcantly improved 2-year primary patency rates (RR, 2.50; 95% CI, 1.66-3.74; P < .00001). There were no differences in steal syndrome, hematoma, infection, pseudoaneuryms, or stenosis, although there was a trend toward
an increased incidence of postoperative thrombosis (RR, 1.81; 95% CI, 0.95-3.45; P ¼ .07) in one-stage procedures.
Conclusions
With improved 2-year primary patency rates that trend towards statistical signiﬁcance and the absence of signiﬁcant
differences in complications, this study suggests potential beneﬁt of a two-stage over a one-stage procedure for brachiobasilic AVF creation. However, rather than being a deﬁnitive answer, our results merely highlight the continuing need for
an adequately powered, well- designed, randomized controlled trial to interrogate this question further.
Main text, Results (Effects of intervention, primary outcomes, paragraph 2):
The meta-analysis was extended to evaluate the patency outcomes for both procedures. There were no differences
detected between the one- and two-stage procedures in 1-year primary patency rates (pooled RR, 1.34; 95% CI, 0.901.99; P ¼ .15; nine studies; N ¼ 854), 1-year secondary patency rates (RR, 1.11; 95% CI, 0.63- 1.93; P ¼ .72; eight studies;
N ¼ 812), 2-year primary patency rates (RR, 1.68; 95% CI, 0.99-2.83; P [ .05), and 2-year secondary patency rates
(RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 0.69-2.46, P ¼ .41; eight studies; N ¼ 812).
Discussion (ﬁrst paragraph):
Twelve studies were included in this review, with a total of 1136 patients who underwent either a one-stage or
two-stage procedure. In terms of primary outcomes, the pooled evidence from the meta-analyses showed no
differences in primary ﬁstula failure rates, 1-year primary patency rates, 1-year secondary patency rates, 2-year
primary patency rates, and 2-year secondary patency rates.
Discussion (second to last paragraph):
Although there is a slight difference in the range of studies included in both reviews, the evidence from our review
agrees with prior conclusions.

CORRECTION
In the June 2019 regular and supplement issues of the Journal of Vascular Surgery, the editorials by Drs Lawrence
and Gloviczki that published in each issue contained an error in the use of the term “critical limb-threatening
ischemia”. The correct term is “chronic limb-threatening ischemia”. The error has been corrected in the title and
in the ﬁrst paragraph of both of these editorials.

CORRECTION
In the June 2019 supplement of the Journal of Vascular Surgery, the article by Conte et al (Conte MS, Bradbury AW,
Kolh P, White JV, Dick F, Fitridge R, et al. Global vascular guidelines on the management of chronic limbthreatening ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2019;69:3S-125S) contained a typo in the name of one of the co-authors. Dr Mauro
Gargiulo’s name incorrectly printed as “Mauro Garguilo.” The correct surname is Gargiulo.

662

