SPECIAL COMMUNICATION

Management of atherosclerotic carotid artery
disease: Clinical practice guidelines of the Society
for Vascular Surgery
Robert W. Hobson, II, MD,a,* William C. Mackey, MD,b Enrico Ascher, MD,c M. Hassan Murad, MD,g
Keith D. Calligaro, MD,e Anthony J. Comerota, MD,f Victor M. Montori, MD,g Mark K. Eskandari, MD,h
Douglas W. Massop, MD,i Ruth L. Bush, MD,j Brajesh K. Lal, MD,k and Bruce A. Perler, MD,l Newark, NJ;
Boston, Mass; Brooklyn, NY; Rochester, Minn; Philadelphia, Pa; Toledo, Ohio; Chicago, Ill; Des Moines, Iowa; College
Station, Tex; and Baltimore, Md
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) appointed a committee of experts to formulate evidence-based clinical guidelines
for the management of carotid stenosis. In formulating clinical practice recommendations, the committee used systematic
reviews to summarize the best available evidence and the GRADE scheme to grade the strength of recommendations
(GRADE 1 for strong recommendations; GRADE 2 for weak recommendations) and rate the quality of evidence (high,
moderate, low, and very low quality). In symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with low-grade carotid stenosis (<50%
in symptomatic and <60% in asymptomatic patients), we recommend optimal medical therapy rather than revascularization (GRADE 1 recommendation, high quality evidence). In symptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid
stenosis (more than 50%), we recommend carotid endarterectomy plus optimal medical therapy (GRADE 1 recommendation,
high quality evidence). In symptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis (>50%) and high perioperative risk,
we suggest carotid artery stenting as a potential alternative to carotid endarterectomy (GRADE 2 recommendation, low
quality evidence). In asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis (>60%), we recommend carotid
endarterectomy plus medical management as long as the perioperative risk is low (GRADE 1 recommendation, high
quality evidence). We recommend against carotid artery stenting for asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe
(>60%) carotid artery stenosis (GRADE 1 recommendation, low quality evidence). A possible exception includes patients
with >80% carotid artery stenosis and high anatomic risk for carotid endarterectomy. ( J Vasc Surg 2008;48:480-6.)

The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) undertook the
task of developing clinical practice guidelines to aid over
2500 of its member surgeons and their patients in the
process of decision-making. Realizing that some areas in
vascular surgery are controversial either because of lack of
evidence or because of the presence of inconsistent and
imprecise evidence, the SVS designated selected topics as
high priority areas in need of clinical practice guidelines.
The SVS appointed committees with expertise in the questions at hand and drew on systematic reviews of the availFrom the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark,a
New England Medical Center, Boston,b Maimonides Medical Center,
Brooklyn,c Mayo Clinic, Rochester,d University of Pennsylvania School of
Medicine, Philadelphia,e Jobst Vascular Center, Toledo,f Mayo Clinic
College of Medicine, Rochester,g Northwestern University Feinberg
School of Medicine, Chicago,h The Iowa Clinic, Des Moines,i Texas A &
M University Health Science Center, College Station,j University of
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark,k and Johns Hopkins
Hospital, Baltimore.l
*Deceased.
Competition of interest: none.
Reprint requests: Enrico Ascher, MD, Maimonides Medical Center, 4802 10th
Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11219 (e-mail: eascher@maimonidesmed.org).
0741-5214/$34.00
Copyright © 2008 by The Society for Vascular Surgery.
doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2008.05.036

480

able evidence to inform its key recommendations. Results
from systematic reviews and their quantitative pooling of
evidence, eg, meta-analysis, offer higher precision and apply to a wider range of patients than individual trials.1 These
committees commissioned the Knowledge and Encounter
Unit, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, to search for
relevant existing reviews and to conduct new systematic
reviews to answer specific questions.
One of the topics chosen by the SVS is the management
of carotid artery stenosis. Carotid endarterectomy has long
been considered the best surgical treatment for carotid
disease with a proven track record in reducing mortality and
morbidity.2,3 However, carotid stenting has emerged as an
alternative, effective and less invasive approach that may be
more attractive to patients at higher perioperative risk and
patients who prefer to avoid open procedures and their
associated morbidities. Several randomized controlled trials
(RCTs) were conducted to compare the two procedures
with some showing stenting to be noninferior to endarterectomy4,5 and some showing inferiority.6 When a metaanalysis pooled these studies, the pooled risk estimates were
imprecise with very wide confidence intervals7 making inference from these trials challenging. Knowing that new
RCTs were recently published, the carotid committee of

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 2

the SVS requested an update of previous reviews to determine the current status of the research evidence about the
treatment of carotid artery stenosis in the two clinical
scenarios of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients.
In issuing clinical practice guidelines, the SVS has
adopted the GRADE system because it separates the quality
of evidence from the strength of recommendations.8 This
separation allows guideline users (clinicians, patients, and
policymakers) to recognize factors other than evidence,
such as patient values and preferences that guideline committees considered when making these recommendations.
Hence, despite lower quality evidence, the committee may
issue a strong recommendation if the values and preferences
that guideline developers bring to bear are such that when
considering even low quality evidence, they are confident
that the benefits of an intervention outweigh its undesirable
outcomes (or vice versa).9
The GRADE system depicts recommendations as either strong (GRADE 1) denoted by the phrase “we recommend” or weak (GRADE 2) denoted by the phrase “we
suggest”. Aside from the strength of recommendations, the
quality of evidence is rated as high quality (typically derived
from well conducted large and consistent randomized trials), moderate quality (typically derived from less rigorous
or inconsistent randomized trials or some observational
studies), and low or very low quality (derived from observational studies, case series, and unsystematic clinical observations).
In this article, the carotid committee of the SVS presents five key recommendations encompassing several permutations and clinical scenarios to clarify the roles of carotid endarterectomy, carotid stenting, and best medical
care, in the management of symptomatic and asymptomatic
patients with low, moderate, and severe degrees of stenosis.
Recommendations are followed by the corresponding evidence: values and preferences, which are factors other than
evidence that the committee considered when issuing recommendations; and if needed, technical remarks, describing the committee’s consensus regarding best practices in
medical management, carotid endarterectomy, and carotids stenting.
RECOMMENDATION
In symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with low
grade carotid stenosis (stenosis ⬍50% in symptomatic patients and ⬍60% in asymptomatic patients); we recommend
optimal medical therapy rather than revascularization
(GRADE 1 recommendation, high quality evidence).
Evidence
A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized
trials that compared carotid endarterectomy with medical
management in patients with ipsilateral symptomatic carotid stenosis3 pooled results from two large multicenter
RCTs that included a total of 5950 patients, the North
American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial
(NASCET),10,11 and the European Carotid Surgery Trial
(ECST).12 Patients with low grade stenosis (NASCET

Hobson et al 481

⬍50%, ECST ⬍70%) were in fact, harmed by surgery to the
extent that endarterectomy increased the risk of disabling
stroke or death by 20% (95% confidence interval [CI]
0%-44%) and the number of patients needed to be operated
on to cause one disabling stroke or death was 45 (95% CI
22 - infinity). Despite the inadequate blinding of outcome
assessors in NASCET and ECST (unblinded assessors presented data to a blinded outcome review board); both trials
were well executed, used the intention-to-treat analysis,
and had adequate allocation concealment.
Values statement
In formulating this recommendation, the committee
placed a relatively higher value on preventing harms associated with carotid endarterectomy, particularly stroke,
death and myocardial infarction, and a relatively lower
value on the cost and side effects of medical management
(eg, gastrointestinal bleeding with aspirin, myopathy with
statins, and so on).
Medical therapy
The best medical management for stroke prevention
was highlighted in clinical practice guidelines issued jointly
in 2006 by the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, and cosponsored by the Council
on Cardiovascular Radiology and Intervention and the
American Academy of Neurology.13 Lowering blood pressure to a target below 120/80 mm Hg by life style interventions and antihypertensive treatment is recommended in persons who have had an ischemic stroke or transient ischemic
attack (TIA) and are beyond the hyperacute period. Angiotensin-converting enzymes and angiotensin receptor blockers
are recommended as first-choice medications for patients with
diabetes. Glucose control to near-normoglycemic levels (target hemoglobin A1C ⱕ7%) is recommended among diabetics to reduce microvascular complications and, with
lesser certainty, macrovascular complications. Patients with
elevated cholesterol, comorbid coronary artery disease, or
evidence of an atherosclerotic origin should be managed
according to NCEP III guidelines, which include lifestyle
modification and/or medications. Statin agents are recommended targeting low density lipoprotein cholesterol
(LDL-C) of ⬍100 mg/dL for those with coronary heart
disease (CHD) or symptomatic atherosclerotic disease and
LDL-C of ⬍70 mg/dL for very high-risk persons with
multiple risk factors. Patients who have smoked in the last
year should be counseled to quit. Counseling and smoking
cessation medications have been found to be effective in
helping smokers to quit. Lower quality evidence suggested
possible benefits of avoiding environmental tobacco
smoke, reduction of alcohol consumption by heavy drinkers, weight reduction for obese patients, and increasing
physical activity. Antiplatelet agents are recommended for
patients with noncardioembolic ischemic stroke or TIA.
Aspirin (50 to 325 mg/d), the combination of aspirin and
extended-release dipyridamole, and clopidogrel are all acceptable options for initial therapy.13

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August 2008

482 Hobson et al

RECOMMENDATION
In symptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis (ⱖ50%) we recommend carotid endarterectomy plus optimal medical therapy (GRADE 1 recommendation, high quality evidence).
Evidence
Moderate stenosis. Among symptomatic NASCET
patients with stenosis of 50% to 69%, the 5-year rate of any
ipsilateral stroke was 15.7% in patients treated surgically
compared with 22.2% in those treated medically. To prevent one ipsilateral stroke during the 5-year follow up
period, 15 patients would have to undergo carotid
endarterectomy.11
High-grade stenosis. Symptomatic NASCET patients with stenosis of 70% to 99% who underwent endarterectomy had a cumulative risk of any ipsilateral stroke at 2
years of 9% compared with 26%for those who were treated
medically. To prevent one ipsilateral stroke, six patients
would have to undergo carotid endarterectomy. For a
major or fatal ipsilateral stroke, the corresponding estimates
were 2.5% and 13.1%. To prevent one major or fatal ipsilateral stroke, nine patients would have to undergo carotid
endarterectomy.10
Results from ECST were similarly supportive of endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with 70% to 99% stenosis. The 3-year risk of ipsilateral stroke was 2.8% in patients
randomized to endarterectomy and16.8% in those randomized to medical therapy alone. The 3-year risk of disabling
or fatal stroke, or surgical death was 6.0% for the surgical
group and 11.0% for the medically treated patients. Therefore, to prevent an ipsilateral stroke or the composite
outcome of disabling or fatal stroke or surgical death, 7 and
20 patients had to undergo endarterectomy, respectively.12
Carotid endarterectomy for nonhemispheric symptoms, vertebrobasilar symptoms, acute stroke, or for stroke
or TIA with internal carotid occlusion is not supported by
high quality evidence but rather by very low quality evidence (case series and unsystematic observations).14-17 In
these settings, and faced with paucity of evidence, surgeon’s complication rate and patient’s values and preferences play a major role in decision making.
The exclusion criteria for NASCET withheld endarterectomy from patients with life expectancy of less than 5 years and
patients with significant comorbid conditions (massive stroke,
liver, kidney or respiratory failure, or cancer). They also excluded patients over the age of 79, those who had a prior
ipsilateral carotid endarterectomy, and those in which angiographic visualization of both carotid arteries and intracranial
branches was not possible. The risk benefit balance in these
populations is, therefore, unclear and our recommendation
requires judicious and selective application. In fact, some
observational studies support the safety and efficacy of carotid
endarterectomy in some of these excluded groups.18,19 Case
by case decision-making, involvement of patients’ values and
preferences, as well as surgeons experience and surgical center
outcomes should be considered.

There are no data to suggest that carotid endarterectomy
is less effective than medical management in any cohort of
patients with symptomatic high-grade (ⱖ50%) carotid stenosis. In addition, no data exist to support or refute the value of
endarterectomy for the management of symptomatic patients
with nonstenotic but severely ulcerated plaques. While there
could be a subset of symptomatic patients with less than 50%
stenosis that might benefit from CEA, current published data
do not permit identification of such a cohort.
Values statement
In recommending endarterectomy for symptomatic patients with moderate to severe (ⱖ50%) carotid stenosis, the
committee placed a relatively higher value on preventing
the outcome of stroke with the associated disability and
morbidity and a relatively lower value on avoiding the
downsides of endarterectomy (cost, perioperative complications such as death, and myocardial infarction).
Carotid endarterectomy
Through a longitudinal or transverse incision, after
systemic heparin administration the internal, common and
external carotid arteries are sequentially occluded with
atraumatic vascular clamps. A longitudinal incision is made
anteriorly in the common carotid artery proximal to the
obviously diseased segment, and extended distally along
the anterior surface of the internal carotid artery beyond the
offending plaque. If a shunt is elected it is inserted at this
time. Dividing the digastric muscle distally or the omohyoid muscle proximally may increase exposure.
The endarterectomy is begun by carefully developing a
subadvential plane with a freer dissector in the common
carotid artery, completed circumferentially, feathered to a
good end-point proximally and continued distally, everting
the plaque out of the external carotid artery and then
completed in the internal carotid artery where the plaque
transitions into normal intima. Today, most evidence
strongly supports arteriotomy closure with an autogenous
vein, Dacron, or polytetrafluoroethylene patch using a running 6-0 polypropylene suture.
Alternatively, eversion endarterectomy is performed by
obliquely amputating the internal carotid artery at the
common carotid bifurcation and rolling back the adventitial layer until normal intima is recognized distally at the
distal endpoint. Residual plaque in the common and external carotid arteries is endarterectomized at this time. After
completion of the endarterectomy, the internal carotid
artery is re-anastomosed to the common carotid artery with
a running 6-0 polypropylene suture.
RECOMMENDATION
In symptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid
stenosis (ⱖ50%) and high perioperative risk, we suggest carotid artery stenting as a potential alternative treatment to
carotid endarterectomy. (GRADE 2 Recommendation, low
quality evidence). High anatomic risk defined as: (1) previous
CEA with recurrent stenosis; (2) prior ipsilateral radiation
therapy to neck with permanent skin changes; (3) previous

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 2

Hobson et al 483

Table. Summary of evidence (carotid endarterectomy vs stenting)
Quality assessment
No of studies

Design

Limitations

Consistency

Directness

Death at 30 days
5

RCTs

Seriousa

No important
inconsistency

No uncertainty
about directness

None

QQQO
Moderate

Any stroke at 30 days
5
RCTs

Seriousa

No important
inconsistency

No uncertainty
about directness

Sparse or imprecise
datab

QQOO
Low

No important
inconsistency

No uncertainty
about directness

None

QQQO
Moderate

Non fatal myocardial infarction at 30 days
3
RCTs
Seriousa

Imprecision

Quality

a

Allocation concealment was not conducted in four trials, and seven trials did not blind data collectors or outcome assessors.
Imprecision is based on risk difference which has wide confidence interval.

b

ablative neck surgery (eg, radical neck dissection, laryngectomy); (4) common carotid artery stenosis below the clavicle; (5) contralateral vocal cord paralysis; and (6) presence
of a tracheostomy stoma.
The authors could not define “high medical risk” with
equal precision. Dialysis dependent renal failure, extremely
low left ventricular ejection fraction, and oxygen or steroid
dependent chronic lung disease are examples of potentially
useful high medical risk criteria. Data on the influence of
such medical factors on carotid endarterectomy outcomes
are inconsistent and generally of poor quality.
Evidence
Upon the request of the carotid committee of the SVS,
a meta-analysis of randomized trials that compared carotid
angioplasty and carotid endarterectomy was updated to
include recent trials.20 This review pooled results from ten
RCTs that included a total of 3182 patients with carotid
stenosis over 50%. The majority of patients were symptomatic and in one of the trials they were designated as being at
high risk for carotid endarterectomy.5 Allocation concealment and blinding of outcome assessors were adequate in
6/10 and 2/10 trials, respectively. At 30 days and compared with endarterectomy, carotid angioplasty was associated with nonsignificant reduction in the risk of death (risk
ratio [RR] 0.61 [0.27-1.37]; 95% CI 0.43, 1.66; I2 ⫽ 0 %);
nonsignificant reduction in the risk of non-fatal myocardial
infarction (RR 0.43 [0.17-1.11]; CI 0.16, 0.96; I2 ⫽ 0%);
and nonsignificant increase in the risk of any stroke (RR
1.29 [0.37-2.26]; CI 0.82, 2.31; I2 ⫽ 40%). Considering
that these procedures are performed to prevent stroke, the
statistically nonsignificant increase in strokes associated
with stenting is perhaps clinically significant. In terms of
comparing stenting with medical management, only two
trials are available.21,22 Pooled estimate of odds ratio of the
outcome of death or any stroke was imprecise and associated with high heterogeneity (OR 0.28; 95% CI 0.02-3.23;
I ⫽70%).23 Hence, the evidence for stenting appears to be
derived solely from comparisons with endarterectomy. The
Table summarizes the evidence comparing endarterectomy
and stenting using relative and absolute risk measures.

Values statement
Patients who place high value on avoiding surgical scar
or perioperative morbidity and mortality may opt for stenting, whereas stroke-averse patients may opt for carotid
endarterectomy. Guideline developers placed a relatively
higher value on avoiding the outcome of stroke and a
relatively lower value on statistically significant but perhaps
clinically trivial increases in perioperative complications.
Carotid artery stenting
Carotid artery stenting is performed under local anesthesia with mild or no sedation. Patients are placed on
clopidogrel and aspirin. Arterial access is achieved through
a retrograde femoral artery approach. Brachial, radial, or
direct CCA approaches have been used in some instances.
Noninvasive or angiographic arch assessment assists in
guiding the optimal approach to the CCA. Patients are
heparinized to an activated clotting time (ACT) of 250300 seconds. The CCA is selectively cannulated with a 5F
directional catheter over a 0.035-inch guidewire. Currently
available stents are deployed through a 6F sheath or an 8F
guiding catheter placed in the CCA within a few centimeters of the lesion. The use of one of several embolic protection devices (EPD) is recommended. It seems unlikely that
a randomized trial will be performed to determine their
neurologic efficacy. Distal filters or occlusive balloons have
been most commonly used and are approved in the United
States (US). Angioplasty is performed with a 3 to 4 mm
balloon to ensure safe passage of the stent. Atropine may be
given prior to angioplasty or selectively, to prevent vasovagal
complications. Current rapid-exchange stent platforms work
over the 0.014-inch wires of the EPDs. Self-expanding nitinol
stents are preferred; open and closed cell designs, as well as
tubular and tapered shapes have been approved for use in
the US. Reliable comparative studies are still required to
guide selection of one stent design over the other.
Post-stenting angioplasty is performed with a balloon
undersized by 20% to 40% of CA diameter and the stent
length. A moderate residual stenosis (20% to 30%) is generally acceptable since continued expansion of nitinol stents

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August 2008

484 Hobson et al

Table. Continued.
Summary of findings (per 1000 patients)
Relative risk (95% CI)

Endarterectomy median event rate

Stenting calculated event rate

RR 0.61 (0.27 to 1.37)

13.7

8.4

RR 1.29 (0.37 to 2.26)

27.0

34.8

RR 0.43 (0.17 to 1.11)

9.8

4.2

In asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe carotid
stenosis (ⱖ60%), we recommend carotid endarterectomy plus
medical management as long as perioperative risk is low.
(GRADE 1 recommendation, high quality evidence).

including trial-eligible patients cared for in centers with not
as good surgical outcomes, requires judgment that considers the potential benefits and harms of the alternative
courses of action as well as the values and preferences of the
patient and their clinical circumstances; if applying our
recommendations to these contexts, clinicians should consider these as suggestions (GRADE 2). Similarly, newer
medical therapies (statins, more potent antiplatelet agents,
and improved management for diabetes and hypertension)
might favorably alter the outcome of medical management
sufficiently to diminish the strength of this recommendation. Newer therapies were included in ACST and their use
in that study did not result in a diminution of the benefit of
endarterectomy from that seen in ACAS.

Evidence

Values statement

The efficacy of carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic
patients was evaluated in a systematic review and meta-analysis
that pooled results from three RCTs.2 These trials included
5223 patients with asymptomatic moderate to severe carotid
stenosis. The degree of stenosis was ⱖ50% in the Veteran
Affairs Cooperative Study24 and ⱖ60% in the Asymptomatic
Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS) and the Asymptomatic
Carotid Surgery Trial (ACST).25,26 All three trials had high
methodological quality including allocation concealment,
blinded outcome assessment and applied intention-to-treat
analysis. The incidence of 30-day perioperative stroke or death
was 2.8%. Patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy
fared better than those treated medically. The relative risk of
perioperative stroke, death or any subsequent stroke was 0.69
(0.57 to 0.83) and the relative risk of perioperative stroke,
death, or subsequent ipsilateral stroke was 0.71 (0.55 to
0.90), both favoring endarterectomy. There was no important
inconsistency in results across trials (I2 ⫽ 0). For the outcome
of any stroke or death, there was a nonsignificant trend towards fewer events in the surgical group (RR 0.92, 95% CI
0.83 to 1.02).
The exclusion criteria for ACAS and ACST were similar
to those for NASCET, and participating surgeons in both
studies were preselected for good surgical results. The
application of our recommendation to excluded groups,

The committee placed a relatively higher value on
preventing the outcome of stroke with the associated disability and morbidity and a relatively lower value on avoiding the downsides of endarterectomy (cost, perioperative
complications such as death and myocardial infarction).

may show additional luminal recruitment over time. Finally, the EPD is removed over a retrieval catheter. The
completion angiogram must visualize the extra- and intracranial circulation in two or more views. The sheath is
removed when the ACT is ⱕ150 seconds; arterial closure
devices can be used to obviate the need for normalization of
the ACT. Patients are placed on clopidogrel for at least 4
weeks and on aspirin indefinitely.
RECOMMENDATION

RECOMMENDATION
We recommend against carotid artery stenting for asymptomatic patients with carotid artery stenosis. (GRADE 1, low
quality evidence).
Evidence
Paucity of evidence hampers the evaluation of carotid
artery stenting in the management of patients with asymptomatic carotid disease. No RCTs have been published comparing
carotid stenting with medical management in asymptomatic
patients. In terms of comparing stenting with endarterectomy
in asymptomatic patients, the systematic review by Murad et
al20 included two trials that reported this comparison.5,27
There were insufficient data to evaluate the effect of therapy
on individual outcomes. The effect of therapy on the composite outcome of death, stroke, and nonfatal myocardial infarction was very imprecise (RR0.52; 95% CI 0.20 to 1.33) due to
the small number of patients (323) and events (18). All the
events were in the SAPHIRE trial whereas Brooks et al did not

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 2

contribute to the pooled estimate because it was a zero-event
trial, ie, none of the patients in either study arm had a death,
stroke, or myocardial infarction. Hence, the committee is
unable to determine whether stenting is noninferior to endarterectomy or best medical management. One possible exception to this recommendation is the asymptomatic patient
with low medical risk, compelling carotid disease, and highrisk anatomy (as defined above). For these patients the committee suggests that practitioners consider carotid artery stenting as a potential alternative to medical management or
carotid endarterectomy if the carotid artery stenosis is ⱖ80%.
Values statement
In making this recommendation, guideline developers
placed a relatively high value on avoiding the potential
downsides of an invasive procedure in the clinical context of
low risk patients with unclear risk-to-benefit ratio. In these
patients, medical therapy may provide sufficient reduction
in the risk of events at a favorable risk-to-benefit ratio.
Furthermore, in medically high-risk patients it seems likely
that in the absence of symptoms, medical therapy will be
safer than either surgical or endovascular treatments.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Using the best available evidence, we have made recommendations for the management of commonly encountered carotid disease patients. We have applied the GRADE
system to these recommendations in order to indicate the
strength of the data supporting our guidelines and the
strength of our convictions in offering these guidelines.
Factors other than data (eg, experience, values, surgeon, or
patient preferences) often play a role in decision making,
especially when supporting data are imperfect. The
strength of a recommendation may not be solely a function
of the strength of the supporting data. To summarize our
recommendations in order of their strength and the quality
of supporting data, we offer the following:
Strong Recommendations ⫹ High Quality Evidence:
a) We recommend optimal medical therapy without revascularization in symptomatic patients with ⬍50% stenosis.
b) We recommend optimal medical therapy without revascularization in asymptomatic patients with ⬍60% stenosis.
c) We recommend carotid endarterectomy plus optimal
medical therapy in symptomatic patients with ⱖ50%
carotid stenosis.
d) We recommend carotid endarterectomy plus optimal
medical management in asymptomatic patients with
ⱖ60% stenosis and low perioperative risk.
Weak Recommendation ⫹ Low Quality Evidence:
e) We suggest carotid stenting as a potential alternative
treatment to carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic
patients with ⱖ50% stenosis and high operative perioperative risk.
f) We suggest that carotid artery stenting is inappropriate for
asymptomatic patients with carotid artery stenosis. Possible
exceptions may include patients with acceptable medical

Hobson et al 485

risk who present with severe carotid artery stenoses (ⱖ80%)
and high anatomic risk for carotid endarterectomy (as
defined above) but with compelling anatomy for stenting.
Practice guidelines can be only as robust as their evidence basis. In the absence of high quality, reliable data,
clinical decisions must be based on lower quality data and
on clinical experience, judgment, values, and preferences.
The GRADE system allows us to separate the strength of
our recommendations from the quality of our supporting
data. The authors of this article recognize that the data
from which these guidelines were formulated are imperfect
and that our values played a significant role in guideline
formulation. Furthermore, the huge variability among patients with cerebrovascular disease, both in their anatomic
and physiologic features, makes application of guidelines
problematic. Often patients do not mesh cleanly with the
criteria established for clinical trial eligibility.
We also recognize that the very criteria used to define
patient cohorts are subject to change. For example, we have
used degree of stenosis to define various patient cohorts
throughout. Symptomatic patients with ⬍50% stenosis are
determined to be best served by medical therapy alone,
while those with ⱖ50% stenosis are deemed to require
surgery. Asymptomatic patients with ⱖ60% stenosis are
deemed candidates for endarterectomy, while in those with
⬍60% stenosis, medical therapy is preferred. The severity of
stenosis may not be the best predictor of plaque behavior,
but it is reproducibly quantifiable and currently used as the
measure of disease severity in all clinical trials. We recognize
that in the future these guidelines will be revised if new
methodologies can better predict the clinical behavior of
atherosclerotic plaques.
Consensus eluded the authors in several areas. We could
not completely agree on the role of carotid stenting in asymptomatic patients. We did agree that data supporting stenting in
this setting were of poor quality because of the absence of a
medically managed control group. A majority felt that patients
with acceptable medical risk, high anatomic risk, and compelling carotid pathology should be considered candidates for
stenting. A minority felt that in the absence of trials comparing
medical therapy with stenting in this cohort, such a recommendation, even as GRADE 2 was ill advised.
We also failed to reach consensus over many details in
the technical performance of endarterectomy and stenting.
Originally we had hoped to present technical guidelines using
the GRADE system, but we found both that supporting data
were inconsistent and generally of low quality and that all
recommendations were GRADE 2 (at best). For example, the
authors could not reach consensus on whether protamine
reversal of heparin after carotid declamping should be recommended or not recommended. Some small scale prospective
randomized trials support protamine use and others support
its avoidance. Similarly, we could not reach consensus on
optimal cerebral monitoring and protection during endarterectomy or on the preferred patch for use in carotid
closure. Since each of us has strong, though not necessarily
fully evidence-based, opinions on these and other technical

486 Hobson et al

points and since each of us is reputed to be expert in
endarterectomy and/or stenting, we felt that we must
report our inability to reach consensus and conclude that
each surgeon must establish his/her own preferred technique, monitor his/her results carefully, and modify the
chosen technique if problems are identified or compelling
new data become available.
We are hopeful that these guidelines will be useful to carotid
surgeons, will promote a uniform, evidence based, effective and
safe approach to carotid disease management, and will serve the
best interests of those patients who seek our help.
This article is dedicated to Dr Robert Hobson in recognition of his leading role in bringing scientific discipline
to the study of carotid disease management.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, AC, VM,
ME, DM, RB, BP
Analysis and interpretation: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, AC,
VM, ME, DM, RB, BL, BP
Data collection: RH, WM, HM,VM, BP
Writing the article: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, BL, BP
Critical revision of the article: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, AC,
VM, ME, DM, RB, BL, BP
Final approval of the article: RH, WM, EA, MM, KC, AC,
VM, ME, DM, RB, BL, BP
Statistical analysis: MM, VM
Obtained funding: Not applicable
Overall responsibility: RH, WM, EA, KC, AC, ME, DM,
RB, BL, BP
REFERENCES
1. Oxman A, Guyatt G, Cook D, Montori V. Summarizing the evidence.
In: Guyatt G, Rennie D, editors. Users’ guides to the medical literature:
a manual for evidence-based clinical practice. Chicago: AMA Press;
2002. p. 55-173.
2. Chambers BR, Donnan GA. Carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic
carotid stenosis.[update of Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2000;(2):
CD001923; PMID: 10796451]. Cochrane Database of Syst Rev
2005(4):CD001923.
3. Cina CS, Clase CM, Haynes RB. Carotid endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2000(2):CD001081.
4. CAVATAS Investigators. Endovascular versus surgical treatment in
patients with carotid stenosis in the Carotid and Vertebral Artery
Transluminal Angioplasty Study (CAVATAS): a randomized trial. Lancet 2001;357:1729-37.
5. Yadav JS, Wholey MH, Kuntz RE, Fayad P, Katzen BT, Mishkel GJ, et
al. Protected carotid-artery stenting versus endarterectomy in high-risk
patients. N Engl J Med 2004;351:1493-1501.
6. Space Collaborative Group, Ringleb PA, Allenberg J, Brückmann H,
Eckstein HH, Fraedrich G, et al. 30 day results from the SPACE trial of
stent-protected angioplasty versus carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic
patients: a randomized noninferiority trial. Lancet 2006;368:1239-47.
7. Coward LJ, Featherstone RL, Brown MM. Safety and efficacy of endovascular treatment of carotid artery stenosis compared with carotid
endarterectomy: a Cochrane systematic review of the randomized evidence. Stroke 2005;36:905-11.
8. Atkins D, Best D, Briss PA, Eccles M, Falck-Ytter Y, Flottorp S, et al.
Grading quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ
2004;328:1490.
9. Swiglo B, Murad M, Schünemann H, Kunz R, Vigersky RA, Guyatt GH, et
al. A case for clarity, consistency, and helpfulness: state-of-the-art clinical

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August 2008

practice guidelines in endocrinology using the GRADE system. J Clin
Endocrin Metab 2008; Epub (doi:10.1210/jc.2007-1907):PMID:
18171699.
10. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators. Beneficial effect of carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with high-grade carotid stenosis. N Engl J Med 1991;
325:445-53.
11. Barnett HJ, Taylor DW, Eliasziw M, Fox AJ, Ferguson GG, Haynes RB, et
al. Benefit of carotid endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic moderate or severe stenosis. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators. N Engl J Med 1998;339:1415-25.
12. European Carotid Surgery Trialists’ Collaborative Group. MRC European Carotid Surgery Trial: interim results for symptomatic patients
with severe (70%-99%) or with mild (0%-29%) carotid stenosis. Lancet
1991;337:1235-43.
13. Sacco RL, Adams R, Albers G, Alberts MJ, Benavente O, Furie K, et al.
Guidelines for prevention of stroke in patients with ischemic stroke or
transient ischemic attack: a statement for healthcare professionals from
the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association Council
on Stroke: cosponsored by the Council on Cardiovascular Radiology
and Intervention: the American Academy of Neurology affirms the
value of this guideline. Stroke 2006;37:577-617.
14. Ouriel K, May AG, Ricotta JJ, DeWeese JA, Green RM. Carotid
endarterectomy for nonhemispheric symptoms: predictors of success. J
Vasc Surg 1984;1:339-45.
15. Ricotta JJ, O’Brien MS, DeWeese JA. Carotid endarterectomy for
non-hemispheric ischemia: long-term follow-up. Cardiovasc Surg
1994;2:561-6.
16. Illuminati G, Calio FG, Papaspyropoulos V, Montesano G, D’Urso A.
Revascularization of the internal carotid artery for isolated, stenotic, and
symptomatic kinking. Arch Surg 2003;138:192-7.
17. Paty PSK, Darling RC 3rd, Feustel PJ, Bernardini GL, Mehta M,
Ozsvath KJ, et al. Early carotid endarterectomy after acute stroke. J Vasc
Surg 2004;39:148-54.
18. Gasparis AP, Ricotta L, Cuadra SA, Char DJ, Purtill WA, Van Bemmelen PS, et al. High-risk carotid endarterectomy: fact or fiction. J Vasc
Surg 2003;37:40-6.
19. Reed AB, Gaccione P, Belkin M, Donaldson MC, Mannick JA, Whittemore AD, et al. Preoperative risk factors for carotid endarterectomy:
defining the patient at high risk. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:1191-9.
20. Murad MH, Flynn DN, Elamin MB, et al. Endarterectomy vs angioplasty for patients with carotid stenosis. A systematic review and metaanalysis. [in preparation]
21. Ederle J, Featherstone R, Dobson J, Brown M. Endovascular treatment
vs medical care in patients with carotid artery stenosis: long-term results
from CAVATAS. Cerebrovasc Dis 2007;23(Suppl 2):55.
22. Zhao X, Jia J, Ji X, Peng M, Ling F. A follow-up: stroke in patients with
bilateral severe carotid stenosis after intervention treatment. Chin J Clin
Rehabil 2003;7:2714-5.
23. Ederle J, Featherstone RL, Brown MM. Percutaneous transluminal
angioplasty and stenting for Carotid artery stenosis. Cochrane Database
Syst Rev 2007;4.
24. Role of carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. A
Veterans Administration Cooperative Study. Stroke 1986;17:534-9.
25. Endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Executive
Committee for the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study.
JAMA 1995;273:1421-8.
26. Halliday A, Mansfield A, Marro J, Peto C, Peto R, Potter J, et al.
Prevention of disabling and fatal strokes by successful carotid endarterectomy in patients without recent neurological symptoms: randomised
controlled trial [erratum appears in Lancet 2004;31:416]. Lancet 2004;
363:1491-1502.
27. Brooks WH, McClure RR, Jones MR, Coleman TL, Breathitt L.
Carotid angioplasty and stenting versus carotid endarterectomy for
treatment of asymptomatic carotid stenosis: a randomized trial
in a community hospital. Neurosurgery 2004;54:318-24; discussion
324-15.

Submitted Apr 22, 2008; accepted May 14, 2008.

