SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY® DOCUMENTS

Early thrombus removal strategies for acute deep
venous thrombosis: Clinical Practice Guidelines of
the Society for Vascular Surgery and the American
Venous Forum
Mark H. Meissner, MD,a Peter Gloviczki, MD,b Anthony J. Comerota, MD,c Michael C. Dalsing, MD,d
Bo G. Eklof, MD,e David L. Gillespie, MD,f Joann M. Lohr, MD,g Robert B. McLafferty, MD,h
M. Hassan Murad, MD,i Frank Padberg, MD,j Peter Pappas, MD,k Joseph D. Raffetto, MD,l and
Thomas W. Wakefield, MD,m Seattle, Wash; Rochester, Minn; Toledo, Ohio; Indianapolis, Ind; Helsingborg, Sweden;
Rochester and New York, NY; Cincinnati, Ohio; Springfield, Ill; Newark, NJ; West Roxbury, Mass; Ann Arbor, Mich
Background: The anticoagulant treatment of acute deep venous thrombosis (DVT) has been historically directed toward
the prevention of recurrent venous thromboembolism. However, such treatment imperfectly protects against late
manifestations of the postthrombotic syndrome. By restoring venous patency and preserving valvular function, early
thrombus removal strategies can potentially decrease postthrombotic morbidity.
Objective: A committee of experts in venous disease was charged by the Society for Vascular Surgery and the American
Venous Forum to develop evidence-based practice guidelines for early thrombus removal strategies, including catheterdirected pharmacologic thrombolysis, pharmacomechanical thrombolysis, and surgical thrombectomy.
Methods: Evidence-based recommendations are based on a systematic review and meta-analysis of the relevant literature,
supplemented when necessary by less rigorous data. Recommendations are made according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology, incorporating the strength of the
recommendation (strong: 1; weak: 2) and an evaluation of the level of the evidence (A to C).
Results: On the basis of the best evidence currently available, we recommend against routine use of the term “proximal
venous thrombosis” in favor of more precise characterization of thrombi as involving the iliofemoral or femoropopliteal
venous segments (Grade 1A). We further suggest the use of early thrombus removal strategies in ambulatory patients with
good functional capacity and a first episode of iliofemoral DVT of <14 days in duration (Grade 2C) and strongly
recommend their use in patients with limb-threatening ischemia due to iliofemoral venous outflow obstruction (Grade
1A). We suggest pharmacomechanical strategies over catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis alone if resources are
available and that surgical thrombectomy be considered if thrombolytic therapy is contraindicated (Grade 2C).
Conclusions: Most data regarding early thrombus removal strategies are of low quality but do suggest patientimportant benefits with respect to reducing postthrombotic morbidity. We anticipate revision of these guidelines as
additional evidence becomes available. ( J Vasc Surg 2012;55:1449-62.)

From the Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattlea; the Division of
Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Mayo
Clinic, Rochesterb; the Section of Vascular Surgery, Jobst Vascular
Center, Toledoc; the Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of
Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolisd; Vascular Surgery, University of Lund, Helsingborge; the Division of Vascular
Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Rochester School of
Medicine & Dentistry, Rochesterf; Lohr Surgical Specialists, Cincinnatig; the Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Southern
Illinois University, Springfieldh; the Department of Preventive, Occupational, and Aerospace Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochesteri; the Division of
Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Medicine &
Dentistry of New Jersey, Newarkj; the Department of Surgery, The
Brooklyn Hospital Center, New Yorkk; the Division of Vascular Surgery,
Department of Surgery, VA Boston Healthcare System, West Roxburyl;

and the Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor.m
Author conflict of interest: none.
Reprint requests: Mark H. Meissner, MD, Department of Surgery, Box
356410, University of Washington, School of Medicine, 1959 NE Pacific
St, Seattle, WA (e-mail: meissner@u.washington.edu).
Independent peer-review and oversight has been provided by members of
the SVS Document Oversight Committee (K. Wayne Johnston, MD
(chair), Elliot L. Chaikof, MD, Jack L. Cronenwett, MD, John F. Eidt,
MD, Lois A. Killewich, MD, PhD, Glenn M. LaMuraglia, MD, John J.
Ricotta, MD, Russell H. Samson, MD).
0741-5214/$36.00
Copyright © 2012 by the Society for Vascular Surgery.
doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2011.12.081

1449

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

1450 Meissner et al

SUMMARY OF GUIDELINES FOR EARLY THROMBUS REMOVAL STRATEGIES

Guideline
1.
1.1.

1.2.

2.
2.1.

2.2.

2.3.

3.
3.1.
3.2.
3.3.
4.
4.1.
4.2.

5.
5.1.
5.2.
6.
6.1.
6.2.

Description
Precision in the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis
We recommend use of precise anatomic terminology to characterize the most
proximal extent of venous thrombosis as involving the iliofemoral veins, with
or without extension into the inferior vena cava; the femoropopliteal veins; or
isolated to the calf veins in preference to simple characterization of a
thrombus as proximal or distal.
If iliofemoral venous thrombosis is suspected but not confirmed using standard
diagnostic modalities such as venous ultrasound imaging, we recommend the
use of adjunctive imaging modalities, such as computed tomography
venography or magnetic resonance venography to characterize the most
proximal thrombus extent.
Indications for early thrombus removal
We suggest a strategy of early thrombus removal in selected patients meeting the
following criteria (a) a first episode of acute iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis,
(b) symptoms ⬍14 days in duration, (c) a low risk of bleeding, and (d)
ambulatory with good functional capacity and an acceptable life expectancy.
We recommend early thrombus removal strategies as the treatment of choice in
patients with limb-threatening venous ischemia due to iliofemoral deep
venous thrombosis with or without associated femoropopliteal venous
thrombosis (phlegmasia cerulea dolens).
We recommend that patients with isolated femoropopliteal deep venous
thrombosis be managed with conventional anticoagulation therapy because
there is currently insufficient evidence to support early thrombus removal
strategies in this patient population.
Techniques for early thrombus removal
We suggest percutaneous catheter-based techniques (pharmacologic or
pharmacomechanical) as first-line therapy for early thrombus removal in
patients meeting the criteria in 1.1.
We suggest a strategy of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis be considered over
catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis alone if expertise and resources
are available.
We suggest open surgical venous thrombectomy in selected patients who are
candidates for anticoagulation but in whom thrombolytic therapy is
contraindicated.
Periprocedural inferior vena cava filters
We recommend against routine use of inferior vena cava filters (permanent or
temporary) in conjunction with catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis
of the iliofemoral venous segments.
We suggest that the relative risks vs benefits of periprocedural retrievable inferior
vena cava filter placement be considered in patients undergoing
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and those with thrombus extending into
the inferior vena cava or having markedly limited cardiopulmonary reserve.
Adjunctive use of venous stents
We recommend the use of self-expanding metallic stents for treatment of
chronic iliocaval compressive or obstructive lesions that are uncovered by any
of the thrombus removal strategies.
We suggest that stents not be used in the femoral and popliteal veins.
Early thrombus removal strategies as an adjunct to conventional management
We recommend that patients managed with early thrombus removal be treated
with a standard course of conventional anticoagulation after the procedure.
We recommend that all patients be treated with knee-high compression
stockings (30 to 40 mm Hg) for at least 2 years after the procedure.

A first episode of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is
estimated to occur with a weighted mean age-adjusted
incidence of 50.4/100,000 person-years.1 Historically, the
treatment of acute DVT has been directed toward the
prevention of recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE)

Grade of
recommendation:
1: Strong
2: Weak

Quality of evidence
A. High
B. Moderate
C. Low or very low

1

A

1

C

2

C

1

A

1

C

2

C

2

C

2

C

1

C

2

C

1

C

2

C

1

A

1

C

and has been defined by randomized clinical trials. These
trials have usually focused on the short-term outcomes after
anticoagulant therapy, using recurrent VTE and bleeding
as primary measures of efficacy and safety.2-4 Such trials
have indeed established anticoagulation to be safe and

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 55, Number 5

effective, with major hemorrhage in 2% of patients5 and
3-month recurrence rates as low as 5.5%.6 However, the
importance of late manifestations of the postthrombotic
syndrome have been increasingly recognized, and it is clear
that conventional anticoagulation alone provides imperfect
protection against the postthrombotic syndrome. Among
355 patients with a first episode of DVT, the cumulative
incidence of any and severe postthrombotic syndrome at 5
years was 28% and 9.3%, respectively.7 Predictors of more
severe postthrombotic syndrome include involvement of
the common femoral or iliac veins, previous ipsilateral
thrombosis, higher body mass index, older age, and female
sex.8 Although the socioeconomic consequences of severe
postthrombotic syndrome are well recognized, even mild
postthrombotic symptoms may adversely affect quality of
life.9,10
Manifestations of the postthrombotic syndrome result
from a combination of valvular incompetence (reflux) and
residual venous obstruction.11,12 Several strategies for early
thrombus removal have been devised, offering the potential
for early restoration of venous patency and preservation of
valve function. Routine use of systemic thrombolysis for
acute DVT was discouraged by high rates of incomplete
thrombolysis and bleeding complications. For example, a
pooled analysis of six randomized trials found systemically
administered streptokinase was 3.7 times more likely than
heparin to produce “greater than minimal” thrombolysis,
although at the expense of a 2.9-fold increase in major
bleeding complications.13 However, more quantitative
analysis of thrombolytic outcomes has demonstrated complete thrombolysis in as few as 8.9% and no thrombus
reduction in as many as 33.8% of patients treated with
systemic tissue plasminogen activator.14 We recommend
against the use of non– catheter-directed, systemically administered thrombolytic agents for the treatment of iliofemoral thrombosis.
More directed strategies, including venous thrombectomy, catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis, and pharmacomechanical thrombolysis, may be more
efficient, with fewer bleeding complications, and likely
have a role in the treatment of acute DVT. Surgical
thrombectomy typically uses a catheter-mounted compliant balloon to remove thrombus from the iliac veins
via a groin incision combined with techniques to remove
associated distal thrombus. Adjunctive construction of a
temporary arteriovenous fistula is commonly recommended to reduce early rethrombosis.15
Catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis is an
image-guided technique involving infusion of thrombolytic agents through a multi-side hole infusion catheter or
wire placed directly into a venous thrombus through a
remote puncture site.16 Pharmacomechanical thrombolysis
uses a number of catheter-based mechanical devices to
deliver the thrombolytic agent as well as to produce some
combination of thrombus fragmentation, distribution of
thrombolytic drugs throughout the thrombus, and/or
thrombus aspiration. These include rotational, rheolytic,
and ultrasound-assisted devices.17

Meissner et al 1451

The safe application of this technology requires careful
selection of those patients most likely to benefit from its
use, considering potential long-term disability, anatomic
distribution of thrombus, duration of symptoms, and the
risk of complications. Unfortunately, proving the efficacy of
these approaches in preventing the late manifestations of
the postthrombotic syndrome is substantially more difficult
than proving the efficacy of anticoagulants in preventing
recurrent VTE. Such trials require much longer periods of
follow-up and validated clinical and quality-of-life measures
rather than dichotomous outcomes such as recurrent VTE.
Nevertheless, recent data suggest that strategies of early
thrombus removal do indeed have a role in the management of acute DVT.18,19
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) and American
Venous Forum (AVF) formed a committee of experts in
venous disease to develop evidence-based clinical practice
guidelines regarding strategies of early thrombus removal
for acute DVT. The committee commissioned the conduct
of a systematic review and meta-analysis of the relevant
literature to inform their recommendations. In contrast to
previously published systematic reviews,20 this review was
confined to patients with iliofemoral DVT and excluded
systemic and locoregional thrombolytic infusion (eg, pedal
vein infusion14) while including surgical thrombectomy.
The results of this systematic review,19 published separately
in this issue of the Journal of Vascular Surgery, forms the
basis of these practice guidelines. When necessary, as for
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and inferior vena cava
(IVC) filtration, this review was supplemented by less rigorous data, including those from pooled analyses and case
series.
The recommendations for early thrombus removal are
made according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach21-22 (Table). According to this system, there are
two components to any treatment recommendation: the
first is a designation of the strength of the recommendation
(strong: 1; or weak: 2) based on the degree of confidence
that the recommendation will provide more benefit than
harm; the second is an evaluation of the level of evidence (A
to C) based on the confidence that the estimate of effect is
correct. The strength of a recommendation (1 or 2) reflects
the balance of benefits and risks, as well as cost to the health
care system:
● Grade 1 recommendations are those in which the

benefits of an intervention clearly outweigh its risk and
burdens. All well-informed patients would choose
such a treatment, and the physician can securely recommend it without a detailed knowledge of the underlying data.
● Grade 2 recommendations are weaker and reflect ther-

apies where the benefits and risks are uncertain or are
more closely balanced. For such interventions, patients
may choose different options based on their underlying values.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

1452 Meissner et al

Table. Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach to treatment
recommendations
Recommendation

Benefit vs risk

1A

Clear

1B

Clear

1C

Clear

2A

Balanced or unclear

2B

Balanced or unclear

2C

Balanced or unclear

Quality of evidence
High: Consistent results from RCTs or
observational studies with large effects
Moderate: RCTs with limitations and very
strong observational studies
Low: Observational studies
Very low: Case series, descriptive reports,
expert opinion
High: Consistent results from RCTs or
observational studies with large effects
Moderate: RCTs with limitations and very
strong observational studies
Low: Observational studies
Very low: Case series, descriptive reports,
expert opinion

Comment
Strong recommendation, generalizable
Strong recommendation; may change with
further research
Intermediate recommendation; likely to
change with further research
Intermediate recommendation: May vary
with patient values
Weak recommendation: May vary with
patient values
Weak recommendation: Alternative
treatments may be equally valid

RCT, Randomized controlled trial.
Adapted from Guyatt G et al.23

In accordance with the American College of Chest
Physicians (ACCP) guidelines for the antithrombotic treatment of venous thromboembolic disease,24 we have adopted the language of “recommending” the use of strong
Grade 1 guidelines and “suggesting” the use of weaker
Grade 2 guidelines.
Although trial methodology is related to the quality of
the evidence, clinicians are actually most interested in reliable estimates of the benefits and harms associated with a
therapy.21 For high-quality evidence, the effects of therapy
(beneficial or ill) are precise, and further research is unlikely
to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. In
contrast, the estimated effect provided by poor-quality
evidence is unclear and likely to change as better quality
evidence becomes available.
● Grade A, or high-quality evidence, usually comes from

well-executed randomized trials yielding consistent results, and occasionally, observational studies with large
effects.
● Grade B, or moderate-quality evidence, comes from
randomized clinical trials with important limitations,
inconsistent randomized trials, and strong observational studies.
● Grade C, or low-quality evidence, includes flawed
randomized trials and most observational studies as
well as data from case reports, descriptive studies, and
expert opinion.
In making recommendations, committee members
considered the available evidence, patients’ values and preferences, availability of surgical expertise, and resource allocation. A systematic process25 was followed whereby initial
guidelines were drafted and submitted, together with the
systematic review,19 to each panel member for comment.
Comments were incorporated into the guidelines and resubmitted to the panel members for further revision or
acceptance. The process was repeated until there was uniform agreement on the text of the final recommendations.

Occasional differences regarding the grade of recommendation were resolved through additional review of the
available data, discussion, and formal vote. On adoption of
the final manuscript, there was a maximum of one dissenting opinion regarding the grade of recommendations 2.1
and 6.2.
GUIDELINES
1. Precision in the diagnosis of DVT
1.1. We recommend use of precise anatomic terminology to characterize the most proximal extent of
venous thrombosis as involving the iliofemoral veins,
with or without extension into the inferior vena cava;
the femoropopliteal veins; or isolated to the calf veins in
preference to simple characterization of a thrombus as
proximal or distal (Grade 1A). Based on perceived differences in outcomes, DVT has historically been considered
to involve the proximal veins or as isolated to the distal or
calf veins. On the basis of the most central extent of
thrombosis, proximal venous thrombosis includes femoropopliteal thrombosis and iliofemoral thrombosis. As defined by the Society of Interventional Radiology,26,27 iliofemoral DVT involves complete or partial thrombosis of
the iliac vein or the common femoral vein, or both, with or
without femoropopliteal DVT. Femoropopliteal DVT involves the femoral or popliteal venous segments, or both,
without extension to the common femoral or iliac veins. It
is becoming increasingly clear that the natural history of
femoropopliteal and iliofemoral thrombosis is significantly
different and that simple stratification of treatment according to involvement of the “proximal” or “distal” veins is no
longer adequate.
From a pathophysiologic perspective, thrombolytic
studies have shown that iliofemoral venous thrombosis is
associated with a very high incidence of underlying anatomic abnormalities in the iliac veins.16 Compared with
femoropopliteal thrombosis, iliofemoral thrombosis is also

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 55, Number 5

associated with less complete recanalization and a higher
incidence of residual venous obstruction. Although the iliac
segments frequently lack valves, persistent proximal venous
obstruction may be potentially associated with the development of reflux in more caudal segments that were not
initially thrombosed.28
Not surprisingly, iliofemoral venous thrombosis is associated with severe hemodynamic derangements that may
be persistent.29 Acutely, iliofemoral thrombosis may compromise the primary venous outflow from the limb with
more severe pain and swelling as well as phlegmasia cerulea
dolens.30 It is also associated with long-term outcomes
such as venous claudication and more severe manifestations
of the postthrombotic syndrome. Venous claudication has
been reported in as many as 43.6% of patients a median of 5
years after iliofemoral DVT.29 Perhaps more importantly,
initial involvement of the common femoral or iliac veins is
associated with a greater increase in objective (Villalta)
postthrombotic scores.8 Although the importance of recurrent venous thrombosis is well recognized as a powerful
determinant of the postthrombotic syndrome,7,31,32 involvement of the iliofemoral venous segment is associated
with at least as great a mean change in Villalta score (⫹2.23;
95% confidence interval [CI], 1.29-3.16) as a previous
ipsilateral DVT (⫹1.78; 95% CI, 0.69-2.87).8 Finally, patients with extensive iliofemoral venous thrombosis have a
greater than twofold increased risk of recurrent VTE compared with those with femoropopliteal thrombosis.6
Because involvement of the iliofemoral venous segments is associated with worse outcomes, the most proximal extent of thrombus should be clearly defined in the
clinical management of patients as well as in research
studies and clinical trials. Routine use of the term proximal venous thrombosis should be discouraged in favor
of more precise characterization of these thrombi as
involving the iliofemoral or femoropopliteal venous
segments.
1.2. If iliofemoral venous thrombosis is suspected
but not confirmed using standard diagnostic modalities
such as venous ultrasound imaging, we recommend the
use of adjunctive imaging modalities, such as computed
tomography venography or magnetic resonance venography to characterize the most proximal thrombus extent (Grade 1C). Several strategies for the diagnosis of
DVT, incorporating combinations of clinical risk stratification,33,34 measurement of D-dimer levels,35-39 and venous
ultrasound imaging, have been developed. As a component
of such strategies, venous ultrasound imaging has become
the most important diagnostic test for acute DVT. Compared with venography, accuracy studies have shown duplex has a mean sensitivity and specificity of 97% and 94%,
with mean positive and negative predictive values of 97%
and 98% for symptomatic, proximal DVT.40 Unfortunately, many ultrasound departments do not routinely evaluate the iliac veins, and even if examined, adequate imaging
of these segments is often limited by body habitus, depth,
overlying bowel gas, and incompressibility of the retroperitoneal veins. Although visualization of at least one iliac

Meissner et al 1453

vein segment has been reported in up to 79% of ultrasound
studies, the common iliac vein was adequately imaged in
only 47%.41
Indirect findings in the common femoral vein, including continuous venous flow, absent respiratory variation,
and continuous flow with Valsalva, may suggest proximal
obstruction but cannot exclude nonocclusive thrombus or
extrinsic compression. Contrast venography may similarly
fail to demonstrate the pelvic veins due to contrast dilution
by the unopacified deep pelvic veins.42
Because multiple venous segments are usually concurrently involved, a diagnosis of DVT can most often be
established independently of evaluating the iliac veins.
However, for the reasons cited in recommendation 1.1,
establishing the most proximal extent of thrombosis is
important in those patients, who may be candidates for
early thrombus removal. Involvement of the iliac veins has
been reported in up to 23% of patients when complete
color-flow ultrasound imaging, including the iliac veins, is
performed.41 Isolated pelvic vein thrombosis has been reported in 1% to 4% of studies using venography or ultrasound imaging, and evidence shows both of these modalities underestimate the true incidence of isolated pelvic vein
thrombosis.43,44 Computed tomography venography
(CTV) and magnetic resonance venography (MRV) are
better able to evaluate the IVC and pelvic veins than
ultrasound imaging or contrast venography. Although
likely biased by referral patterns, Spritzer44 found involvement of the pelvic veins in 43.8% of 167 consecutive
positive MRV studies. Thrombus was isolated to the pelvic
veins in 20.4% of these positive studies. Ultrasound imaging failed to detect isolated iliac thrombosis in all seven
patients undergoing ultrasound imaging and MRV.
CTV may be performed by direct contrast administration into a foot vein or by indirect injection through an arm
vein.45 Indirect CTV may be performed as part of imaging
protocols for pulmonary embolism (PE)46 and avoids the
need for foot vein puncture in a swollen limb. Pooled
analysis of 13 studies comparing CTV vs ultrasound imaging or venography (largely in patients presenting with
symptoms of PE) showed an overall sensitivity and specificity of 95.9% and 95.2% for the detection of DVT.47
Smaller studies have also shown that CTV has the capacity
to detect iliac thromboses that were missed on standard
ultrasound protocols.43
MRV has also been demonstrated to be accurate in the
diagnosis of DVT. A meta-analysis of 14 studies using a
variety of MRV techniques compared with venography or
ultrasound imaging demonstrated a sensitivity and specificity of 95.7% and 92.9%, respectively.48 In a series of 45
patients with acetabular fractures, Montgomery et al42
found that contrast venography identified only one of 11
pelvic thrombi documented by MRV. Others have similarly
shown MRV is accurate in the diagnosis of pelvic
thrombosis.49
If duplex ultrasound imaging suggests the presence of
iliac thrombosis but is not able to define the most proximal
extent of thrombus, it may be reasonable to proceed di-

1454 Meissner et al

rectly to contrast venography in anticipation of intervention. However, further noninvasive imaging of the pelvis
with CTV or MRV should be considered when a clinical
suspicion of DVT persists despite a negative result on an
ultrasound examination. If iliofemoral thrombus is identified, definitive contrast imaging can be performed at the
time of any planned intervention.
Selection of the appropriate study depends on patient
characteristics and institutional expertise. In strongly recommending the use of alternative imaging in such situations, a high value is placed on identifying isolated iliofemoral thrombosis that may be missed by routine ultrasound
imaging, although the cost-effectiveness of this approach
has not been evaluated nor have prospective management
trials been performed (Grade 1C).
2. Indications for early thrombus removal
2.1. We suggest a strategy of early thrombus removal in selected patients meeting the following criteria: (a) a first episode of acute iliofemoral deep venous
thrombosis, (b) symptoms <14 days in duration, (c) a
low risk of bleeding, and (d) ambulatory with good
functional capacity and an acceptable life expectancy
(Grade 2C). The strength of recommendation for strategies of early thrombus removal are based on balancing the
patient-important benefits of prevention of the postthrombotic syndrome and quality of life vs the risks of therapy;
specifically, bleeding, PE, and recurrent DVT. The use of
surrogate outcomes may also be relevant, such as the prevention of venous reflux and persistent venous obstruction,
although they provide a less robust estimate of benefit and
contribute to the indirectness of the evidence. Overall, the
quality of evidence supporting early thrombus removal
strategies is very low (Grade C) because of the methodologic limitations of the relevant studies (lack of randomization, incomparability of study groups, loss to follow-up),
imprecise estimates of effects, and indirectness of the
evidence.19
However, the available evidence does suggest that early
thrombus removal strategies for iliofemoral venous thrombosis are associated with significant reductions in manifestations
of the postthrombotic syndrome as well as improvements in
the surrogate markers of valvular incompetence (reflux) and
persistent venous obstruction.19 Competing risks include those associated with surgery (surgical thrombectomy) and bleeding (thrombolytic strategies). Systematic review of comparative studies suggests that adverse
events are poorly reported overall19 and that caution is
warranted in ensuring patients are appropriately selected.
The balance of risks vs benefits for individual early
thrombus removal strategies are further discussed below.
Less rigorous evidence suggests that the optimal patient population includes patients with a first episode of
iliofemoral DVT of ⬍14 days in duration, having a reasonable life expectancy, and without a high risk of bleeding.
Recommendations regarding the optimal patient population are largely derived from one large, multicenter registry
of patients undergoing catheter-directed pharmacologic

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

thrombolysis.16 Among patients enrolled in the National
Venous Registry, those with chronic symptoms, femoropopliteal DVT, and symptoms ⬎10 days in duration had
significantly worse outcomes than those with a first episode
of acute iliofemoral DVT of ⬍10 days in duration. However, the 10-day interval of symptoms was arbitrary, and
symptom duration among those symptomatic for ⬎10 days
varied from days to many months.
Other guidelines have suggested that DVT associated
with symptoms present for ⱕ14 days be considered
acute,27 and a recently published randomized trial included
patients with symptoms of ⬍21 days.50 These recommendations contrast with the findings of our systematic review,19 which identified no relationship between the duration of symptoms before intervention and development of
the postthrombotic syndrome. On balance, recommendations for consideration of early thrombus removal strategies
in patients with symptoms of ⬍14 days of duration would
seem fairly secure. Although a benefit in patients with a
duration of symptoms of ⬎14 days cannot be excluded,
chronic thrombosis does appear to be associated with inferior results,16 and the relative benefits vs risks in such
patients should be considered on an individualized basis.
Given the options available for the treatment of acute
iliofemoral DVT, it is unlikely that all patients would
choose a strategy of surgical thrombectomy, catheterdirected pharmacologic thrombolysis, or pharmacomechanical thrombolysis. Individual patients undoubtedly place
different values on the benefits of avoiding the postthrombotic syndrome vs the risks and burdens of a surgical
procedure or bleeding. Most patients place a higher value
on avoiding early death than on avoiding late outcomes
that affect quality of life.51
A decision analysis evaluating systemic streptokinase in
the treatment of DVT suggests that patients would be
unlikely to accept more than a 1.7-fold increase in major
bleeding compared with heparin therapy.51 On the basis of
individual variation in values and preferences, strategies of
early thrombus removal should be considered a Grade 2
recommendation. Recommendation of a strategy of early
thrombus removal requires a careful assessment of the
potential risks and benefits for the individual patient, and
for those patients in whom early thrombus removal is
deemed a reasonable therapeutic option, a careful discussion with the patient to ensure that the physician’s recommendation is concordant with the patient’s values and
preferences.
2.2. We recommend early thrombus removal strategies as the treatment of choice in patients with limbthreatening venous ischemia due to iliofemoral deep
venous thrombosis with or without associated femoropopliteal venous thrombosis (phlegmasia cerulea dolens) (Grade 1A). Phlegmasia cerulea dolens (PCD) is
characterized by massive swelling, cyanosis, and pain resulting from extensive thrombosis of the iliofemoral venous
outflow.52,53 Pedal pulses remain palpable in ⬃50% of
patients.54,55 Massive fluid sequestration may lead to hypovolemia and hypotension. Venous gangrene may compli-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 55, Number 5

cate 60% to 64% of cases of PCD52,54 and occurs when
extensive venous thrombosis, most often at the iliofemoral
level, leads to profound venous hypertension and small
arterial collapse once critical closing pressures are exceeded
by the surrounding tissue pressure.56 Calf compartment
pressures of ⱖ50 mm Hg have been documented in association with PCD.53,57
Unfortunately, the literature regarding venous gangrene
is fragmented, with the surgical literature emphasizing the
mechanical consequences of venous outflow obstruction and
the medical literature largely focusing on microvascular mechanisms. Venous gangrene may be associated with profound
imbalances of the procoagulant–anticoagulant systems, particularly in the setting of underlying malignancy or heparininduced thrombocytopenia, both of which are common underlying causes.54,58,59 Venous gangrene in these situations is
often associated with the initiation of warfarin and results from
a combination of profound hypercoagulability and concurrent
protein C depletion.60 However, it is unclear how much
overlap there is between reports of venous gangrene arising
from extensive venous outflow obstruction and those related
to an underlying procoagulant–anticoagulant imbalance. The
development of limb-threatening venous ischemia may thus
be multifactorial, related to elevated venous pressures as well
as profound procoagulant–anticoagulant imbalances. Regardless of the mechanism, venous gangrene is associated with
death in one-third or more of patients and high rates of
amputation.52,54,57,59
The primary goals in the treatment of PCD with impending tissue loss are arresting thrombus progression,
thereby preserving patency of the collateral circulation, and
restoring venous outflow. Appropriate anticoagulation,
fluid resuscitation, and leg elevation are important early in
the management of PCD.53,57 The ACCP has developed
guidelines for the management of venous gangrene in the
setting of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.61 These
guidelines strongly recommend anticoagulation with a
nonheparin anticoagulant (Grade 1B) until the platelet
count has stabilized at a normal level. Warfarin should not
be instituted until the platelet count has recovered (Grade
1B). The clinician should consult the ACCP guidelines for
full details of the anticoagulant management of venous
gangrene associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.61 Although heparin is effective in cancer-associated
thrombosis, institution of warfarin may also lead to venous
gangrene and should be approached with caution.58
Despite the critical importance of appropriate anticoagulation in arresting thrombus progression, such treatment does
little to address underlying mechanical issues related to profound venous outflow obstruction. Older reviews of the literature suggested that heparin alone was ineffective in the treatment of venous gangrene.52 We recommend that all patients
with impending tissue loss related to venous thrombosis be
evaluated for iliofemoral venous outflow obstruction as
well as potential causes of profound hypercoagulability
such as malignancy and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Anticoagulation should be initiated according to the

Meissner et al 1455

ACCP guidelines,24 with careful attention to the possibility
of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia or malignancy.61
Although the evidence is of low quality and largely
limited to case reports and series, thrombolytic therapy
does appear to limit the progression of pregangrenous
changes in patients with profound iliofemoral venous outflow obstruction. Several reports document the efficacy of
pharmacomechanical or catheter-directed pharmacologic
thrombolysis in limiting or reversing ischemic changes due
to PCD.57,62,63 Despite concerns regarding the quality of
the data, the potential benefits appear to outweigh the risks
in this life- and limb-threatening condition. The relative
infrequency of PCD with impending tissue loss, the heterogeneity of patients, and the poor results of anticoagulation
alone make it unlikely that large randomized trials will be
performed. Furthermore, the results of conventional anticoagulation are sufficiently dismal that catheter-directed
pharmacologic thrombolysis for impending venous gangrene in the presence of iliofemoral thrombosis is strongly
recommended (Grade 1A).
Although older series recommended fasciotomy for
compartment syndrome associated with PCD,15,64 its role
in contemporary management is controversial. However,
we must emphasize that fasciotomy is not first-line therapy,
should not precede rapid intervention to relieve iliofemoral
venous outflow obstruction, and should rarely be considered as an isolated procedure. A decrease in compartmental
pressures will accompany successful relief of outflow obstruction53 and usually obviates the need for fasciotomy.
We suggest that fasciotomy only be considered if compartment pressures in the thigh or calf remain elevated (⬎30
mm Hg) despite efforts to restore iliofemoral venous outflow using the procedures outlined above (Grade 2C).
Fasciotomy in the setting of thrombolytic therapy and
anticoagulation may be associated with significant blood
loss.
2.3. We recommend that patients with isolated
femoropopliteal deep venous thrombosis be managed
with conventional anticoagulation therapy because
there is currently insufficient evidence to support early
thrombus removal strategies in this patient population
(Grade 1C). The role of early thrombus removal in the
treatment of femoropopliteal DVT remains poorly defined.
Consensus-based documents have suggested that the
threshold for thrombus removal strategies in acute femoropopliteal DVT should be higher than for iliofemoral
DVT.27 Compared with iliofemoral DVT, femoropopliteal
DVT is associated with less deranged hemodynamics, a
lower risk of the postthrombotic syndrome,8 and a lower
risk of recurrent VTE.6 Harvesting of the femoral vein as a
conduit for arterial reconstruction has been shown to be
tolerated with few symptoms. Among 81 limbs in which
the femoropopliteal vein was harvested, mild edema was
reported in 31%, with no skin changes or ulceration.65 Late
follow-up (70.1 ⫾ 5.6 months) of 28 such limbs showed
advanced chronic venous disease (CEAP C3 to C6) in only
14.8%.66 Although such limbs may show plethysmographic
evidence of venous outflow obstruction,66 this is usually

1456 Meissner et al

well compensated due to axial transformation of the profunda femoris vein through remnants of the axial limb
vein.67
Multicenter registries have further suggested a less
favorable outcome for femoropopliteal than for iliofemoral
DVT treated with thrombolytic therapy.16 Although an
effect of thrombus chronicity cannot be excluded, 1-year
patency was achieved in only 47% of limbs with femoropopliteal thrombosis compared with 64% of limbs with iliofemoral thrombosis. Complete lysis was not achieved in any
patient with femoropopliteal DVT present for ⬎10 days.
Although recommendations may change with the availability of better-quality evidence, there is currently little evidence supporting a role for early thrombus removal strategies in the treatment of femoropopliteal DVT. However,
we must acknowledge that the beneficial effects of early
thrombus removal were not substantially changed if studies
not explicitly evaluating the treatment of iliofemoral DVT
were included in the systematic review.19 This at least raises
the possibility that these strategies may have some role in
the treatment of femoropopliteal DVT.
3. Techniques for early thrombus removal
3.1. We suggest percutaneous catheter-based techniques (pharmacologic or pharmacomechanical) as
first-line therapy for early thrombus removal in patients meeting the criteria in 1.1 (Grade 2C). Compared with standard anticoagulant therapy, catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolytic therapy is associated
with significant reductions in the risks of the postthrombotic syndrome (relative risk [RR], 0.19; 95% CI .07.48), venous reflux (RR, 0.21; 95% CI, 0.09-0.53), and
venous obstruction (RR, 0.35; 95% CI, 0.17-0.34).19
These results are consistent with a previous systematic
review,20 which included less efficient systemic and locoregional techniques, demonstrating a significant reduction in postthrombotic syndrome (RR, 0.66; 95% CI,
0.47-0.94) with thrombolytic treatment. According to
this review, one case of postthrombotic syndrome would
be prevented for every five patients treated with thrombolytic therapy. The short-term hemodynamic results of
one additional randomized clinical trial in which catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis was compared
with standard anticoagulation has been published since
the most recent systematic review.50 Among 103 randomized patients, 6-month patency was significantly better
in those who received catheter-directed pharmacologic
thrombolysis (64.0% vs 35.8%; P ⫽ .004), whereas the
incidence of femoral vein reflux was similar (60.0% vs
66.0%; P ⫽ .53).
Contraindications to thrombolytic therapy include active internal bleeding; recent cerebrovascular accident or
intracranial surgery, trauma, or tumor; recent serious gastrointestinal bleeding; major trauma or surgery ⱕ10 days;
severe uncontrolled hypertension; pregnancy; endocarditis;
intracardiac thrombus; known right-to-left shunt; coagulopathy, thrombocytopenia, or absolute contraindications
to anticoagulation; suspected septic thrombus; and allergy

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

to thrombolytic agents.16,27 Although most contraindications can be identified on routine clinical assessment,
some68 have suggested brain imaging before thrombolysis
in patients with malignancies known to metastasize to the
central nervous system.
The associated risks of catheter-directed thrombolysis
include hemorrhage (particularly intracranial), PE, and recurrent DVT. Although complications have been poorly
reported in comparative trials, some data regarding the
bleeding complications associated with catheter-directed
thrombolytic therapy are available. Among 473 patients
reported in the multicenter National Venous Registry,
bleeding complications were reported in 54 (11%), neurologic complications in two (0.4%), PE in six (1%), and death
in two (0.4%). Bleeding complications were most common
at the venous insertion site (4%) or in the retroperitoneum
(1%). Major neurologic complications, including one fatal
intracranial hemorrhage and one subdural hematoma, occurred in only two patients (0.4%).
A systematic review that included trials of systemic and
locoregional thrombolysis reported higher rates of bleeding among patients treated with thrombolytic agents (RR,
1.73; 95% CI 1.04-2.88) but no significant differences in
mortality (RR, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.29-2.42), pulmonary embolism (RR, 1.23; 95% CI, 0.34-4.45), or intracranial
hemorrhage (RR, 1.70; 95% CI, 0.21-13.70).20 Notably,
these authors observed that bleeding complications, which
occurred in 10% of thrombolytic patients compared with
8% of patients treated with anticoagulation, tended to
decrease over time, perhaps reflecting improved thrombolytic techniques and more rigorous exclusion criteria. Finally, a pooled analysis of 19 studies, largely single-center
case series, reported major bleeding in a mean of 8.3% of
patients (range, 0%-24%) and rates of symptomatic PE,
intracranial hemorrhage, and death of 0.9% (range, 0%1%), 0.2% (range, 0%-1%), and 0.3% (range, 0%-1%),
respectively.27
There are little comparative data evaluating optimal
thrombolytic agents, doses of lytic agents and concurrent
anticoagulants, and infusion techniques. Streptokinase, although rarely used due to the risks of allergic reactions and
bleeding, remains the only thrombolytic agent approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration for the
treatment of DVT. Several series, however, have reported
the successful use of urokinase,16,69-72 tissue plasminogen
activator,69-71 reteplase,69-71 and tenecteplase73 for venous
thrombolysis.
A consensus panel of the Society of Interventional
Radiology has reviewed recommended thrombolytic dosages and techniques for their catheter-directed administration.68 Because patient characteristics and bleeding risks
vary, individual judgment is required in the selection of
appropriate thrombolytic and concurrent anticoagulant
doses. Most would agree that thrombolytic infusion times
should be minimized and balanced against lytic progress to
avoid complications. Reimaging with follow-up venography at 8- to 24-hour intervals68 and discontinuation of
therapy once lytic stagnation is reached are commonly

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 55, Number 5

recommended. Concurrent anticoagulation with unfractionated heparin is recommended during thrombolytic
procedures, although doses may differ depending on the
thrombolytic agent and there is no robust scientific evidence to guide dosing. Previous consensus recommendations from the Society of Interventional Radiology suggest
that subtherapeutic doses of heparin are appropriate for all
thrombolytic agents except urokinase, in which case therapeutic anticoagulation may be considered.68
3.2. We suggest a strategy of pharmacomechanical
thrombolysis be considered over catheter-directed
pharmacologic thrombolysis alone if expertise and resources are available (Grade 2C). Although more efficient than the systemic administration of thrombolytic
agents, catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis remains limited by prolonged infusion times (averaging 53.4
hours), the potential for bleeding complications,20 and the
frequent requirement for hospitalization in the intensive
care unit.71 A variety of mechanical devices have been
designed to work in conjunction with thrombolytic agents
in an effort to improve the efficiency of thrombolysis,
reduce lytic doses and procedure times, and lessen bleeding
complications. These approaches, which include rotational,
rheolytic, and ultrasound-assisted devices, are collectively
referred to as pharmacomechanical thrombolysis.17,74 Limited data suggest that these devices should be used in
conjunction with pharmacologic lytic agents, significant
lysis (⬎50%) being achieved in only one-third of patients
treated with mechanical devices alone.70 The use of mechanical devices alone, without the concurrent use of
thrombolytic drugs, cannot be routinely recommended.
A systematic review of 16 retrospective case series that
used a pharmacomechanical approach with a variety of
thrombolytic devices reported ⬎50% lysis in 83% to 100%
of patients. Although complication rates should be viewed
with caution, these studies reported no procedure-related
deaths or strokes, a ⬍1% incidence of PE, and no major
bleeding complications, although 4.2% to 14% of patients
required a transfusion.17 A similar systematic review of
eight cases series also found no major periprocedural bleeding complications or deaths.74
Although randomized clinical trials are lacking, two
small cohort studies compared pharmacomechanical
thrombolysis with catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis. Lin et al reported that although rates of complete
thrombolysis were similar for pharmacomechanical and
catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis (75% vs
70%), infusion times (76 ⫾ 34 minutes vs 18 ⫾ 8 hours)
and costs (mean cost difference $37, 609) were significantly less with pharmacomechanical thrombolysis. There
was no difference in bleeding complications, although patients undergoing pharmacomechanical thrombolysis required fewer transfusions (0.2 vs 1.2 units). The second
small study (n ⫽ 45) similarly demonstrated shorter treatment times (30.3 ⫾ 17.8 vs 56.5 ⫾ 27.4 hours) and lower
urokinase doses (2.95 ⫾ 1.8 million U vs 6.70 ⫾ 5.90
million U) for adjunctive pharmacomechanical thrombolysis compared with catheter-directed pharmacologic

Meissner et al 1457

thrombolysis alone. Major bleeding complications were
7.1% for adjunctive pharmacomechanical thrombolysis vs
8.7% for catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis
alone, which was not significantly different.72
Because no direct comparisons regarding the efficacy of
catheter-directed pharmacologic vs pharmacomechanical
thrombolysis were available at the time of the current
systematic review, the efficacy of these devices in preventing
the postthrombotic syndrome is indirectly inferred from
the data regarding pharmacologic catheter-directed lysis
alone. However, their preferential recommendation over
pharmacologic catheter-directed lysis is based on the potential for greater efficacy and safety.
3.3. We suggest open surgical venous thrombectomy in selected patients who are candidates for anticoagulation but in whom thrombolytic therapy is contraindicated (Grade 2C). Venous thrombectomy is
effective in relieving iliofemoral venous obstruction and
may preserve function of more distal valves. Iliofemoral
venous thrombectomy has been compared with anticoagulation therapy in 10 studies,52,75-83 only one of which was a
prospective, randomized trial.80 All studies were small,
ranging from 15 to 192 patients, with follow-up varying
from 6 months to 10 years. However, pooled analysis19 of
the five studies75-77,80,83 evaluating reflux showed thrombectomy was associated with a statistically significant reduction in the risk of reflux (RR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.46-0.99).
Among the four studies75,80,82,83 evaluating venous patency, there was a nonsignificant trend toward less venous
obstruction (RR, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.60-1.19) among those
undergoing thrombectomy. Most important, there was a
significant reduction in the risk of the patient-important
outcome of the postthrombotic syndrome (RR, 0.67; 95%
CI, 0.52-0.87). Unfortunately, pooled analysis19 of these
nine trials yielded no reliable data regarding the risk of
complications or death. As with all strategies of early
thrombus removal, careful attention to patient selection
and an individual assessment of risks vs benefits as well as
patient values and preferences is required in recommending
iliofemoral venous thrombectomy.
The specific thrombectomy techniques and adjuvants
used for catheter-directed and pharmacomechanical thrombolysis techniques are largely guided by case series and expert
opinion rather than by comparative trials. Important technical
aspects of the procedure include preoperative imaging to
demonstrate the proximal extent of thrombus with an extended surgical approach if the IVC is involved; intraoperative
use of positive end-expiratory pressure to reduce the risk of PE;
intraoperative completion venography to ensure patency of the
iliac vein; stenting of any identified iliac vein lesions; use of a
temporary arteriovenous fistula to reduce early rethrombosis; and
carefully monitored postoperative anticoagulation.15,84
Although thrombectomy does appear to be associated with improved long-term outcomes after iliofemoral DVT, the overall quality of the data supporting its use
is low, and there are little data allowing a reliable estimate of risk vs benefits in an individual patient19 (Grade
2C). The interval estimates are wide, but there is a trend

1458 Meissner et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

toward better outcomes with catheter-directed thrombolysis than with thrombectomy with respect to the risk
of the postthrombotic syndrome (RR, 0.33; 95% CI,
0.00-2.28), venous reflux (RR, 0.44; 95% CI, 0.052.10), and venous obstruction (RR, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.012.13).8 We acknowledge that these data suffer from
indirect comparison, wide CIs, and potential confounding by the discordant time intervals during which the
studies were performed.
In recommending the thrombolytic techniques over
surgical thrombectomy in patients who are candidates for
either approach, a higher value is placed on avoiding the
more invasive procedure and potential surgical complications than on unknown differences in bleeding rates. However, given the more invasive nature, the limited experience
of most surgeons, and the potentially greater risk of complications with surgical thrombectomy, the weight of the
evidence would seem to favor percutaneous thrombolytic
approaches over surgical thrombectomy in patients without
contraindications to thrombolytic agents.

echanical procedures, there were no symptomatic
periprocedural PE among those with (20%) or without
IVC filters.69 Although there may have been a selection
bias among those undergoing prophylactic filter placement, these results were achieved despite thrombus extending into the IVC in 30% of patients. Other small
series85 have similarly reported asymptomatic emboli
captured by IVC filters in similar proportions of patients
undergoing catheter-directed or pharmacomechanical
thrombolysis and among those with and without involvement of the IVC. However, it is also clear that
symptomatic PE may occasionally complicate these procedures.87 Given that there are little reliable data regarding the risk of PE with the newer pharmacomechanical
modalities and that filter placement is generally associated with little morbidity (but additional cost), it seems
prudent to consider this an unresolved question and to at
least consider the relative balance of benefit vs risk in
potentially high-risk situations (Grade 2C).

4. Periprocedural inferior vena cava filters

5.1. We recommend the use of self-expanding metallic stents for treatment of chronic iliocaval compressive or obstructive lesions that are uncovered by any of
the thrombus removal strategies (Grade 1C). and
5.2. We suggest that stents not be used in the
femoral and popliteal veins (Grade 2C). Acute DVT is
usually regarded as a multicausal disease, arising from the
interaction of multiple genetic, environmental, and behavior risk factors.88,89 The importance of underlying anatomic factors, such as nonthrombotic iliac vein lesions,90
was not appreciated when conventional anticoagulation
was the only therapeutic option. However, with the development of image-guided techniques for early thrombus
removal, including surgical thrombectomy and thrombolytic strategies, it has become clear that compressive or
obstructive iliac vein lesions contribute to many cases of
iliofemoral DVT. A pooled analysis of 19 published studies,
including 1046 patients treated with catheter-directed or
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis, reported the use of
stents in 46% of patients.27 Although the total number of
limbs with stenoses or obstructive lesions uncovered by
lytic therapy in the National Venous Registry was not
reported, 33% of limbs required treatment with metallic
stents.16 The 1-year patency was significantly better in
limbs treated with iliac stents (74%) than in limbs without
stent placement (53%; P ⬍ .001).
Although lacking evidence from comparative trials, the
relatively poor results associated with untreated iliac stenosis and the poor results achieved with angioplasty favor
stenting of any persistent obstructive lesions uncovered by
thrombolysis and is strongly recommended (Grade 1C).
Single-plane venography may be relatively insensitive in the
detection of iliocaval compression. Compared with intravascular ultrasound, venography has been demonstrated to
have a sensitivity of only 45% for the detection of chronic
iliac obstruction.91 Although likely a useful adjunct in this
setting, there are currently little data regarding the use of

4.1. We recommend against routine use of inferior
vena cava filters (permanent or temporary) in conjunction with catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis of the iliofemoral venous segments (Grade 1C). Although catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis may
be associated with asymptomatic radiographic evidence of
PE,85 symptomatic PE appears to be a relatively rare complication of catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis.
Among the 473 patients included in the National Venous
Registry,16 in whom IVC filters were not routinely used,
PE occurred in only 1% of patients. Notably, 71% of procedures involved thrombus extension to at least the iliofemoral
segments, and 15% had extension to the IVC. The mean
incidence of PE was 0.9% in a pooled analysis of 19 published
studies of catheter-directed or pharmacomechanical thrombolysis.27 This risk is similar to that observed in patients
treated with conventional anticoagulation and does not warrant routine placement of an IVC filter.
4.2. We suggest that the relative risks vs benefits of
periprocedural retrievable inferior vena cava placement
be considered in patients undergoing pharmacomechanical thrombolysis and in those with thrombus
extending into the inferior vena cava or who have
markedly limited cardiopulmonary reserve (Grade 2
C). Although the routine use of IVC filters in patients
undergoing catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis appears to be unwarranted, the selective use of such
devices in high-risk situations remains controversial. Patients with thrombus extending into the IVC and those
undergoing pharmacomechanical thrombolysis71,73 are
often deemed to be at higher risk for PE and to warrant
consideration for retrievable filter placement.69,86 Unfortunately, little reliable data are available to support or
refute this position.
Among 68 patients undergoing a variety of pharmacologic (40%), mechanical (17%), and pharmacom-

5. Adjunctive use of venous stents

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 55, Number 5

intravascular ultrasound imaging to assess residual stenosis
and guide stent placement after early thrombus removal.
Flexible, large-diameter, self-expanding stents, extending
into the inferior vena cava and common femoral vein if
indicated, are preferred for use in the iliac veins. In contrast
to the favorable results with iliac stents, stents placed in the
femoropopliteal venous segment fare poorly,16 and we
suggest that stents not be used in the femoropopliteal
segment (Grade 2C).
6. Early thrombus removal strategies as an adjuvant
to conventional management
6.1. We recommend that patients managed with
early thrombus removal be treated with a standard
course of conventional anticoagulation after the procedure (Grade 1A). Strategies of early thrombus removal
should be considered an adjunct rather than an alternative
to conventional anticoagulation for acute iliofemoral DVT.
Successful thrombus removal should be followed by a
standard course of anticoagulation with unfractionated or
low-molecular-weight heparin, followed by oral anticoagulants administered for a duration guided by the patient’s
underlying risk factors. Evidence-based guidelines for the
anticoagulant treatment of acute DVT are regularly updated by the ACCP.24 With anticoagulation, cumulative
rates of freedom from recurrent DVT after thrombolytic
treatment have been reported to be 85%, 83%, and 83% at
6, 12, and 24 months.69 Although the duration of anticoagulation is generally determined by underlying thrombotic risk factors, the optimal duration of anticoagulation
after the placement of venous stents in the setting of early
thrombus removal has not been adequately studied, and no
evidence-based recommendations can be provided. Factors
associated with stent thrombosis have included thrombophilia and evidence of extrinsic compression.92
6.2. We recommend that all patients be treated
with knee-high compression stockings (30 to 40 mm
Hg) for at least 2 years after the procedure (Grade
1C). The role of compression stockings in the management of chronic venous disorders has been well established.93 Compression stockings improve calf muscle pump
function, reduce edema, and likely improve cutaneous microcirculation.94-98 The use of graded elastic compression
stockings decreases by 50% the incidence of objectively
defined postthrombotic syndrome after a first episode of
“proximal” DVT treated with conventional anticoagulation.
In a randomized trial of 194 patients, the incidence of mildto-moderate and severe postthrombotic syndrome was 20%
and 11%, respectively, among patients receiving compression
stockings compared with 47% and 23% among those in the
control group.99 Prandoni et al100 similarly found the use of
compression stockings (30 to 40 mm Hg at the ankle) reduced the 2-year incidence of any post-thrombotic syndrome
from 49.1% to 24.5%. Among those treated with optimal
anticoagulation, 4.3 patients need to wear compression stockings to prevent one case of post-thrombotic syndrome.
On the basis of these data, current guidelines recommend the prescription of graded elastic compression stock-

Meissner et al 1459

ings (40 mm Hg at the ankle) for at least 2 years after a
proximal thrombotic event treated with conventional anticoagulation (Grade 1A).24 Although early thrombus removal strategies likely also reduce the incidence of the
postthrombotic syndrome, no reports have evaluated the
adjunctive effect of compression stockings in this patient
population. The evidence supporting the use of compression stockings among patients treated with early thrombus
removal strategies is indirect, but the potential benefits
likely exceed the risks, and their use can be strongly recommended (Grade 1C).
VALUES STATEMENT
The committee incorporated certain factors other than
evidence in formulating the recommendations presented in
these guidelines. The explicit identification of such factors
is important for guideline users and represents an advantage
of using the GRADE system. The committee recognizes
the poor quality of evidence supporting several of the
recommendations, particularly arising from the common
use of surrogate end points (eg, degree of lysis, venous
reflux and patency) and the sparse data demonstrating the
relative efficacy of different treatment strategies on patientimportant outcomes (eg, death, pulmonary embolism, recurrence of DVT, quality of life, and time to return to
work). The committee placed a relatively high value on
preventing DVT and the postthrombotic syndrome. We
also considered the availability of surgical/interventional
expertise and the resources needed for more aggressive
approaches. In recommending the thrombolytic techniques over surgical thrombectomy, we placed a higher
value on avoiding the potential complications of an infrequently performed surgical procedure. In recommending
stents for lesions uncovered by thrombus removal, we
highly valued the avoidance of complications related to
untreated iliac stenosis, despite the lack of comparative
data. In recommending compression stockings, we considered this intervention to be relatively inexpensive, to not
require expertise, and able to be applied on a large scale.
Indirect evidence was occasionally used due to lack of more
direct evidence.
Evidence-based medicine has been defined as “the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of the current best
evidence in making decisions about the care of individual
patients.”101 This specifically involves integrating clinical expertise, the patient’s individual situation and preferences, and
the best available clinical evidence. The guidelines of the
Society for Vascular Surgery and American Venous Forum
should be interpreted as a guide to be applied in the context of
clinical judgment rather than as a rigid mandate. Furthermore,
there are many aspects of early thrombus removal strategies
for which little rigorous data exist and evidence-based guidelines are impractical at the present time. Clinical judgment is of
the utmost importance in such situations.
CONCLUSIONS
Unfortunately, the clinical evidence supporting virtually all strategies of early thrombus removal, including

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

1460 Meissner et al

catheter-directed pharmacologic thrombolysis, pharmacomechanical thrombolysis, and surgical thrombectomy,
is of low quality. Large multicenter randomized clinical
trials are lacking, and existing series have often included
diverse patients and have largely evaluated only technical
outcome measures.16,17,74 Despite these obvious deficiencies, systematic review of studies comparing these
strategies with conventional anticoagulation does suggest some benefit with respect to reducing the incidence
of the postthrombotic syndrome.19 Successful application of any of these strategies requires careful patient
selection as well as a consideration of the patient’s underlying values and preferences. Accordingly, most recommendations are weak (Grade 2). Furthermore, because of the very low quality of the underlying evidence,
the details of these recommendations are likely to change
as better-quality evidence becomes available. In this
regard, the use of patient-important outcomes, such as
quality of life or objective measures of the post-thrombotic syndrome (Villalta score,102 Venous Clinical Severity Score103) should be strongly encouraged over technical outcomes such as lytic success and surrogate
markers such as reflux and residual venous obstruction.
Randomized clinical trials, including the ATTRACT104
(Acute Venous Thrombosis: Thrombus Removal with
Adjunctive Catheter-Directed Thrombolysis) and
CaVenT50,105 (Catheter-directed Venous Thrombolysis
in Acute Iliofemoral Vein Thrombosis) trials, are currently underway and will likely provide further evidence
regarding the clinical utility of these strategies. We anticipate that the results of these trials will lead to guideline revisions.
The currently available evidence cannot address several
important questions. These include the optimal thrombolytic dose, the relative safety and efficacy of different thrombolytic agents and mechanical thrombectomy devices, and
the appropriate intensity of anticoagulation to be used
during thrombolytic procedures. Also, too little data are
available to guide recommendations regarding the use of
adjuvants such as intermittent pneumatic compression.106,107 Finally, the quality-of-life benefits and costeffectiveness of this therapy need to be more thoroughly
evaluated.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: MM
Analysis and interpretation: MM, PG, AC, MD, BE, DG,
JL, RM, HM, FP, PP, JR, TW
Data collection: MM, HM
Writing the article: MM, PG
Critical revision of the article: MM, PG, AC, MD, BE, DG,
JL, RM, HM, FP, PP, JR, TW
Final approval of the article: MM, PG, AC, MD, BE, DG,
JL, RM, HM, FP, PP, JR, TW
Statistical analysis: HM
Obtained funding: MM, PG
Overall responsibility: MM

REFERENCES
1. Fowkes FJ, Price JF, Fowkes FG. Incidence of diagnosed deep vein
thrombosis in the general population: systematic review. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2003;25:1-5.
2. Koopman MM, Prandoni P, Piovella F, Ockelford PA, Brandjes DP,
Van Der Meer J, et al. Treatment of venous thrombosis with intravenous unfractionated heparin administered in the hospital as compared
with subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin administered at
home. The Tasman Study Group. N Engl J Med 1996;334:682-7.
3. Levine M, Gent M, Hirsh J, Leclerc J, Anderson D, Weitz J, et al. A
comparison of low-molecular-weight heparin administered primarily
at home with unfractionated heparin administered in the hospital for
proximal deep-vein thrombosis. N Engl J Med 1996;334:677-81.
4. Büller HR, Davidson BL, Decousus H, Gallus A, Gent M, Piovella F,
et al. Fondaparinux or enoxaparin for the initial treatment of symptomatic deep venous thrombosis: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med
2004;140:867-73.
5. Dolovich LR, Ginsberg JS, Douketis JD, Holbrook AM, Cheah G. A
meta-analysis comparing low-molecular-weight heparins with unfractionated heparin in the treatment of venous thromboembolism: examining
some unanswered questions regarding location of treatment, product
type, and dosing frequency. Arch Intern Med 2000;160:181-8.
6. Douketis JD, Crowther MA, Foster GA, Ginsberg JS. Does the location
of thrombosis determine the risk of disease recurrence in patients with
proximal deep vein thrombosis? Am J Med 2001;110:515-9.
7. Prandoni P, Villalta S, Bagatella P, Rossi L, Marchiori A, Piccioli A, et al.
The clinical course of deep-vein thrombosis. Prospective long-term follow-up of 528 symptomatic patients. Haematologica 1997;82:423-8.
8. Kahn SR, Shrier I, Julian JA, Ducruet T, Arsenault L, Miron MJ, et al.
Determinants and time course of the postthrombotic syndrome after
acute deep venous thrombosis. Ann Intern Med 2008;149:698-707.
9. Kahn SR. The post-thrombotic syndrome: progress and pitfalls. Br J
Haematol 2006;134:357-65.
10. Kahn SR, Hirsch A, Shrier I. Effect of postthrombotic syndrome on
health-related quality of life after deep venous thrombosis. Arch Intern
Med 2002;162:1144-8.
11. Johnson BF, Manzo RA, Bergelin RO, Strandness DE. Relationship
between changes in the deep venous system and the development of
the postthrombotic syndrome after an acute episode of lower limb
deep vein thrombosis: A one- to six-year follow-up. J Vasc Surg
1995;21:307-13.
12. Johnson BF, Manzo RA, Bergelin RO, Strandness DE. The site of
residual abnormalities in the leg veins in long-term follow-up after
deep vein and their relationship to the development of the postthrombotic syndrome. Int Angiol 1996;15:14-9.
13. Goldhaber SZ, Buring JE, Lipnick RJ, Hennekens CH. Pooled analyses
of randomized trials of streptokinase and heparin in phlebographically
documented acute deep venous thrombosis. Am J Med 1984;76:393-7.
14. Schwieder G, Grimm W, Siemens HJ, Flor B, Hilden A, Gmelin E, et
al. Intermittent regional therapy with rt-PA is not superior to systemic
thrombolysis in deep vein thrombosis (DVT)–a German multicenter
trial. Thromb Haemost 1995;74:1240-3.
15. Eklof B, Arfvidsson B, Kistner RL, Masuda EM. Indications for
surgical treatment of iliofemoral vein thrombosis. Hematol/Oncol
Clin North Am 2000;14:471-82.
16. Mewissen MW, Seabrook GR, Meissner MH, Cynamon J, Labropoulos N, Haughton SH. Catheter-directed thrombolysis for lower extremity deep venous thrombosis: report of a national multicenter
registry. Radiology 1999;211:39-49.
17. Karthikesalingam A, Young EL, Hinchliffe RJ, Loftus IM, Thompson
MM, Holt PJ. A systematic review of percutaneous mechanical thrombectomy in the treatment of deep venous thrombosis. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2011;41:554-65.
18. Comerota AJ, Throm RC, Mathias SD, Haughton S, Mewissen M.
Catheter-directed thrombolysis for iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis improves health-related quality of life. J Vasc Surg 2000;32:130-7.
19. Casey ET, Munrad MH, Zumeta Garcia M, Elamin MB, Qian S,
Erwin PJ, et al. Treatment of acute iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis:
a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg 2011 [submitted to
J Vasc Surg].

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 55, Number 5

20. Watson LI, Armon MP. Thrombolysis for acute deep vein thrombosis.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2004:CD002783.
21. Atkins D, Best D, Briss PA, Eccles M, Falck-Ytter Y, Flottorp S, et al;
GRADE Working Group. Grading quality of evidence and strength of
recommendations. BMJ 2004;328:1490-4.
22. Murad MH, Swiglo BA, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Montori VM. Methodology for clinical practice guidelines for the management of arteriovenous access. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:26S-30S.
23. Guyatt G, Schünemann HJ, Cook D, Jaeschke R, Pauker S. Applying
the grades of recommendation for antithrombotic and thrombolytic
therapy: the Seventh ACCP Conference on Antithrombotic and
Thrombolytic Therapy. Chest 2004;126:179-87S.
24. Kearon C, Kahn SR, Agnelli G, Goldhaber S, Raskob GE, Comerota
AJ. Antithrombotic therapy for venous thromboembolic disease:
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines (8th Edition). Chest 2008;133:454-545S.
25. Fink A, Kosecoff J, Chassin M, Brook RH. Consensus methods: characteristics and guidelines for use. Am J Public Health 1984;74:979-83.
26. Vedantham S, Millward SF, Cardella JF, Hofmann LV, Razavi MK,
Grassi CJ, et al. Society of Interventional Radiology position statement: treatment of acute iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis with use of
adjunctive catheter-directed intrathrombus thrombolysis. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2006;17:613-6.
27. Vedantham S, Thorpe PE, Cardella JF, Grassi CJ, Patel NH, Ferral H,
et al. Quality improvement guidelines for the treatment of lower
extremity deep vein thrombosis with use of endovascular thrombus
removal. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2006;17:435-47.
28. Caps MT, Manzo RA, Bergelin RO, Meissner MH, Strandness DE.
Venous valvular reflux in veins not involved at the time of acute deep
vein thrombosis. J Vasc Surg 1995;22:524-31.
29. Delis KT, Bountouroglou D, Mansfield AO. Venous claudication in
iliofemoral thrombosis: long-term effects on venous hemodynamics,
clinical status, and quality of life. Ann Surg 2004;239:118-26.
30. Hill SL, Martin D, McDannald ER, Jr, Donato AT. Early diagnosis of
iliofemoral venous thrombosis by Doppler examination. Am J Surg
1988;156:11-5.
31. Beyth RJ, Cohen AM, Landefeld CS. Long-term outcomes of deepvein thrombosis. Arch Intern Med 1995;155:1031-7.
32. Prandoni P, Lensing AW, Cogo A, Cuppini S, Villalta S, Carta M, et al.
The long-term clinical course of acute deep venous thrombosis. Ann
Intern Med 1996;125:1-7.
33. Shields GP, Turnipseed S, Panacek EA, Melnikoff N, Gosselin R,
White RH. Validation of the Canadian clinical probability model for
acute venous thrombosis. Acad Emerg Med 2002;9:561-6.
34. Wells PS, Anderson DR, Bormanis J, Guy F, Mitchell M, Gray L, et al.
Value of assessment of pretest probability of deep-vein thrombosis in
clinical management. Lancet 1997;350:1795-8.
35. Anderson DR, Wells PS, Stiell I, MacLeod B, Simms M, Gray L, et al.
Management of patients with suspected deep vein thrombosis in the
emergency department: combining use of a clinical diagnosis model
with D-dimer testing. J Emerg Med 2000;19:225-30.
36. Bucek RA, Koca N, Reiter M, Haumer M, Zontsich T, Minar E.
Algorithms for the diagnosis of deep-vein thrombosis in patients with
low clinical pretest probability. Thromb Res 2002;105:43-7.
37. Dryjski M, O’Brien-Irr MS, Harris LM, Hassett J, Janicke D. Evaluation of a screening protocol to exclude the diagnosis of deep venous
thrombosis among emergency department patients. J Vasc Surg 2001;
34:1010-5.
38. Kelly J, Hunt BJ. Role of D-dimers in diagnosis of venous thromboembolism. Lancet 2002;359:456-8.
39. Schutgens RE, Ackermark P, Haas FJ, Nieuwenhuis HK, Peltenburg
HG, Pijlman AH, et al. Combination of a normal D-dimer concentration and a non-high pretest clinical probability score is a safe strategy to
exclude deep venous thrombosis. Circulation 2003;107:593-7.
40. Kearon C, Julian JA, Math M, Newman TE, Ginsberg JS. Noninvasive
diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis. McMaster diagnostic imaging
practice guidelines initiative. Ann Intern Med 1998;128:663-77.
41. Messina LM, Sarpa MS, Smith MA, Greenfield LJ. Clinical significance
of routine imaging of iliac and calf veins by color flow duplex scanning

Meissner et al 1461

in patients suspected of having acute lower extremity deep venous
thrombosis. Surgery 1993;114:921-7.
42. Montgomery KD, Potter HG, Helfet DL. Magnetic resonance venography to evaluate the deep venous system of the pelvis in patients who
have an acetabular fracture. J Bone Joint Surg Am 1995;77:1639-49.
43. Yoshida S, Akiba H, Tamakawa M, Yama N, Takeda M, Hareyama M.
Spiral CT venography of the lower extremities by injection via an arm
vein in patients with leg swelling. Br J Radiol 2001;74:1013-6.
44. Spritzer CE. Progress in MR imaging of the venous system. Perspect
Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther 2009;21:105-16.
45. Orbell JH, Smith A, Burnand KG, Waltham M. Imaging of deep vein
thrombosis. Br J Surg 2008;95:137-46.
46. Cham MD, Yankelevitz DF, Shaham D, Shah AA, Sherman L, Lewis
A, et al. Deep venous thrombosis: detection by using indirect CT
venography. The pulmonary angiography-Indirect CT Venography
Cooperative Group. Radiology 2000;216:744-51.
47. Thomas SM, Goodacre SW, Sampson FC, van Beek EJ. Diagnostic
value of CT for deep vein thrombosis: results of a systematic review and
meta-analysis. Clin Radiol 2008;63:299-304.
48. Sampson FC, Goodacre SW, Thomas SM, van Beek EJ. The accuracy
of MRI in diagnosis of suspected deep vein thrombosis: systematic
review and meta-analysis. Eur Radiol 2007;17:175-81.
49. Carpenter JP, Holland GA, Baum RA, Owen RS, Carpenter JT, Cope
C. Magnetic resonance venography for the detection of deep venous
thrombosis: comparison with contrast venography and duplex Doppler ultrasonography. J Vasc Surg 1993;18:734-41.
50. Enden T, Kløw NE, Sandvik L, Slagsvold CE, Ghanima W, Hafsahl G, et
al. Catheter-directed thrombolysis vs. anticoagulant therapy alone in deep
vein thrombosis: results of an open randomized, controlled trial reporting
on short-term patency. J Thromb Haemost 2009;7:1268-75.
51. O’Meara JJ, McNutt RA, Evans AT, Moore SW, Downs SM. A
decision analysis of streptokinase plus heparin as compared with heparin alone for deep-vein thrombosis. N Engl J Med 1994;330:1864-9.
52. Weaver FA, Meacham PW, Adkins RB, Dean RH. Phlegmasia cerulea
dolens: therapeutic considerations. South Med J 1988;81:306-12.
53. Qvarfordt P, Eklöf B, Ohlin P. Intramuscular pressure in the lower leg
in deep vein thrombosis and phlegmasia cerulae dolens. Ann Surg
1983;197:450-3.
54. Gloviczki P, Hollier LH, Cherry KJ, Pairolero PC, Gale SS, Schirger A.
Phlegmaisa cerulea dolens: the continuing morbidity. Int Angiol
1982;1:127-34.
55. Fogarty TJ, Cranley JJ, Krause RJ, Strasser ES, Hafner CD. Surgical
management of phlegmasia cerulea dolens. Arch Surg 1963;86:256-63.
56. Lorimer JW, Semelhago LC, Barber GG. Venous gangrene of the
extremities. Can J Surg 1994;37:379-84.
57. Hood DB, Weaver FA, Modrall JG, Yellin AE. Advances in the
treatment of phlegmasia cerulea dolens. Am J Surg 1993;166:206-10.
58. Warkentin TE. Venous limb gangrene during warfarin treatment of
cancer-associated deep venous thrombosis. Ann Intern Med 2001;
135:589-93.
59. Warkentin TE, Elavathil LJ, Hayward CP, Johnston MA, Russett
JI, Kelton JG. The pathogenesis of venous limb gangrene associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Ann Intern Med
1997;127:804-12.
60. Linkins LA, Warkentin TE. The approach to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Semin Respir Crit Care Med 2008;29:66-74.
61. Warkentin TE, Greinacher A, Koster A, Lincoff AM. Treatment and
prevention of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia: American College
of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines (8th
edition). Chest 2008;133:340-80S.
62. Robinson DL, Teitelbaum GP. Phlegmasia cerulea dolens: treatment
by pulse-spray and infusion thrombolysis. AJR Am J Roentgenol
1993;160:1288-90.
63. Tung CS, Soliman PT, Wallace MJ, Wolf JK, Bodurka DC. Successful
catheter-directed venous thrombolysis in phlegmasia cerulea dolens.
Gynecol Oncol 2007;107:140-2.
64. Cywes S, Louw JH. Phlegmasia cerulea dolens: successful treatment by
relieving fasciotomy. Surgery 1962;51:169-76.
65. Valentine RJ, Clagett GP. Aortic graft infections: replacement with
autogenous vein. Cardiovasc Surg 2001;9:419-25.

1462 Meissner et al

66. Modrall JG, Hocking JA, Timaran CH, Rosero EB, Arko FR 3rd,
Valentine RJ, et al. Late incidence of chronic venous insufficiency after
deep vein harvest. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:520-5.
67. Raju S, Fountain T, Neglén P, Devidas M. Axial transformation of the
profunda femoris vein. J Vasc Surg 1998;27:651-9.
68. Vedantham S, Thorpe PE, Cardella JF, Grassi CJ, Patel NH, Ferral H,
et al. Quality improvement guidelines for the treatment of lower
extremity deep vein thrombosis with use of endovascular thrombus
removal. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2009;20:S227-39.
69. Protack CD, Bakken AM, Patel N, Saad WE, Waldman DL, Davies
MG. Long-term outcomes of catheter directed thrombolysis for lower
extremity deep venous thrombosis without prophylactic inferior vena
cava filter placement. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:992-7.
70. Vedantham S, Vesely TM, Parti N, Darcy M, Hovsepian DM, Picus D.
Lower extremity venous thrombolysis with adjunctive mechanical
thrombectomy. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2002;13:1001-8.
71. Lin PH, Zhou W, Dardik A, Mussa F, Kougias P, Hedayati N, et al.
Catheter-direct thrombolysis versus pharmacomechanical thrombectomy for treatment of symptomatic lower extremity deep venous
thrombosis. Am J Surg 2006;192:782-8.
72. Kim HS, Patra A, Paxton BE, Khan J, Streiff MB. Adjunctive percutaneous mechanical thrombectomy for lower-extremity deep vein
thrombosis: clinical and economic outcomes. J Vasc Interv Radiol
2006;17:1099-104.
73. Arko FR, Davis CM, 3rd, Murphy EH, Smith ST, Timaran CH, Modrall
JG, et al. Aggressive percutaneous mechanical thrombectomy of deep
venous thrombosis: early clinical results. Arch Surg 2007;142:513-8.
74. Dasari TW, Pappy RM, Hennebry TA. Pharmacomechanical thrombolysis of acute and chronic symptomatic deep vein thrombosis: a
systematic review of literature. Angiology 2012;63:138-45.
75. Fasolini FG, Streuli HK. [Thrombectomy versus conservative therapy
of thrombosis of the deep veins of the pelvis and legs. Late results 10
years later]. Helv Chir Acta 1985;52:735-8.
76. Gänger KH, Nachbur BH, Ris HB, Zurbrügg H. Surgical thrombectomy
versus conservative treatment for deep venous thrombosis; functional
comparison of long-term results. Eur J Vasc Surg 1989;3:529-38.
77. Hamilton H, Pontin AR, Immelman EJ, Kahn D. Venous thrombectomy in patients presenting with iliofemoral vein thrombosis after
renal transplantation. Transpl Int 1996;9:513-6.
78. Hold M, Bull PG, Raynoschek H, Denck H. Deep venous thrombosis:
results of thrombectomy versus medical therapy. Presented at the 5th
European-American Symposium on Venous Diseases, Vienna, Austria,
November 7-11, 1990. VASA; 1992;21:181-7.
79. Matsubara J, Ban I, Nakata Y, Shinjo K, Hirai M, Miyazaki H.
Long-term follow-up results of the iliofemoral venous thrombosis.
J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1976;17:234-9.
80. Plate G, Einarsson E, Ohlin P, Jensen R, Qvarfordt P, Eklöf B. Thrombectomy with temporary arteriovenous fistula: the treatment of choice in
acute iliofemoral venous thrombosis. J Vasc Surg 1984;1:867-76.
81. Sato S, Iwai T, Sakurazawa K, Inoue Y, Takiguchi N, Sugano N, et al.
[Conservative treatment of acute deep vein thrombosis of lower extremities]. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992;93:1052-4.
82. Stiegler H, Arbogast H, Halder A, Grau A, Riess H, Tosch U.
[Operation, lysis, heparin therapy: 3 equally valid forms of therapy in
acute leg-pelvic venous thrombosis]. Vasa Suppl 1987;20:153-6.
83. Törngren S, Hjertberg R, Rosfors S, Bremme K, Eriksson M, Swedenborg J. The long-term outcome of proximal vein thrombosis during
pregnancy is not improved by the addition of surgical thrombectomy
to anticoagulant treatment. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1996;12:31-6.
84. Eklof B, Kistner RL. Is there a role for thrombectomy in iliofemoral
venous thrombosis? Semin Vasc Surg 1996;9:34-45.
85. Kölbel T, Alhadad A, Acosta S, Lindh M, Ivancev K, Gottsäter A.
Thrombus embolization into IVC filters during catheter-directed
thrombolysis for proximal deep venous thrombosis. J Endovasc Ther
2008;15:605-13.
86. Martinez Trabal JL, Comerota AJ, LaPorte FB, Kazanjian S, DiSalle R,
Sepanski DM. The quantitative benefit of isolated, segmental, phar-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
May 2012

macomechanical thrombolysis (ISPMT) for iliofemoral venous
thrombosis. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:1532-7.
87. Tsai J, Georgiades CS, Hong K, Kim HS. Presumed pulmonary embolism
following power-pulse spray thrombectomy of upper extremity venous
thrombosis. Cardiovasc Interv Radiol 2006;29:678-80.
88. Rosendaal FR. Venous thrombosis: a multicausal disease. Lancet
1999;353:1167-73.
89. Rosendaal FR. Venous thrombosis: the role of genes, environment, and
behavior. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program 2005:1-12.
90. Raju S, Neglen P. High prevalence of nonthrombotic iliac vein lesions
in chronic venous disease: a permissive role in pathogenicity. J Vasc
Surg 2006;44:136-43; discussion: 44.
91. Neglén P, Raju S. Intravascular ultrasound scan evaluation of the
obstructed vein. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:694-700.
92. Titus JM, Moise MA, Bena J, Lyden SP, Clair DG. Iliofemoral stenting
for venous occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:706-12.
93. Meissner MH, Eklof B, Smith PC, Dalsing MC, DePalma RG, Gloviczki P, et al. Secondary chronic venous disorders. J Vasc Surg 2007;
46(Suppl S):68-83S.
94. Murphy MA, Joyce WP, Condron C, Bouchier-Hayes D. A reduction in
serum cytokine levels parallels healing of venous ulcers in patients undergoing compression therapy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;23:349-52.
95. Nehler MR, Moneta GL, Woodard DM, Defrang RD, Harker CT,
Taylor LM, Jr, et al. Perimalleolar subcutaneous tissue pressure effects
of elastic compression stockings. J Vasc Surg 1993;18:783-8.
96. Nehler MR, Porter JM. The lower extremity venous system. part II:
The pathophysiology of chronic venous insufficiency. Perspect Vasc
Surg 1992;5:81.
97. Partsch H. [Improving the venous pumping function in chronic
venous insufficiency by compression as dependent on pressure and
material]. Vasa 1984;13:58-64.
98. Sarin S, Scurr JH, Coleridge Smith PD. Mechanism of action of external
compression on venous function. Br J Surg 1992;79:499-502.
99. Brandjes DP, Büller HR, Heijboer H, Huisman MV, de Rijk M, Jagt H,
et al. Randomised trial of effect of compression stockings in patients with
symptomatic proximal-vein thrombosis. Lancet 1997;349:759-62.
100. Prandoni P, Lensing AW, Prins MH, Frulla M, Marchiori A, Bernardi
E, et al. Below-knee elastic compression stockings to prevent the
post-thrombotic syndrome: a randomized, controlled trial. Ann Intern Med 2004;141:249-56.
101. Sackett DL. Evidence-based medicine. Spine 1998;23:1085-6.
102. Villalta S, Bagatella P, Piccioli A, Lensing AWA, Prins MH, Prandoni
P. Assessment of validity and reproducibility of a clinical scale for the
post-thrombotic syndrome. Haemostasis 1994;24:158a.
103. Vasquez MA, Rabe E, McLafferty RB, Shortell CK, Marston WA,
Gillespie D, et al. Revision of the venous clinical severity score: venous
outcomes consensus statement: special communication of the American venous Forum Ad Hoc Outcomes Working Group. J Vasc Surg
2010;52:1387-96.
104. Comerota AJ. The ATTRACT trial: rationale for early intervention for
iliofemoral DVT. Perspect Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther 2009;21:221-4.
105. Enden T, Sandvik L, Kløw NE, Hafsahl G, Holme PA, Holmen LO, et
al. Catheter-directed Venous Thrombolysis in acute iliofemoral vein
thrombosis–the CaVenT study: rationale and design of a multicenter,
randomized, controlled, clinical trial (NCT00251771). Am Heart J
2007;154:808-14.
106. Baekgaard N, Broholm R, Just S, Jørgensen M, Jensen LP. Long-term results
using catheter-directed thrombolysis in 103 lower limbs with acute iliofemoral venous thrombosis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2010;39:112-7.
107. Ogawa T, Hoshino S, Midorikawa H, Sato K. Intermittent pneumatic compression of the foot and calf improves the outcome of
catheter-directed thrombolysis using low-dose urokinase in patients with acute proximal venous thrombosis of the leg. J Vasc Surg
2005;42:940-4.

Submitted Dec 7, 2011; accepted Dec 27, 2011.

