SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY DOCUMENT
The Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice
guidelines on the management of visceral aneurysms
Rabih A. Chaer, MD,a Christopher J. Abularrage, MD,b Dawn M. Coleman, MD,c Mohammad H. Eslami, MD,a
Vikram S. Kashyap, MD,d Caron Rockman, MD,e and M. Hassan Murad, MD,f Pittsburgh, Pa; Baltimore, Md;
Ann Arbor, Mich; Cleveland, Ohio; New York, NY; and Rochester, Minn

ABSTRACT
These Society for Vascular Surgery Clinical Practice Guidelines describe the care of patients with aneurysms of the visceral
arteries. They include evidence-based size thresholds for repair of aneurysms of the renal arteries, splenic artery, celiac
artery, and hepatic artery, among others. Speciﬁc open surgical and endovascular repair strategies are also discussed.
They also describe speciﬁc circumstances in which aneurysms may be repaired at smaller sizes than these size thresholds, including in women of childbearing age and false aneurysms. These Guidelines offer important recommendations
for the care of patients with aneurysms of the visceral arteries and long-awaited guidance for clinicians who treat these
patients. (J Vasc Surg 2020;72:3S-39S.)

TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS ............................
Renal artery aneurysm (RAA) ......................................
Splenic artery aneurysm (SAA) ..................................
Celiac artery aneurysm (CAA) .....................................
Gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms .
Hepatic artery aneurysm (HAA) ................................
Superior mesenteric artery aneurysm (SMAA)
Jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysms ..........
Pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm
(PDAA) and gastroduodenal artery aneurysm
(GDAA) .............................................................................................
INTRODUCTION .........................................................................
METHODS .....................................................................................
Guideline framework .........................................................
Evidence synthesis ...............................................................
RENAL ARTERY ANEURYSM (RAA) ...............................
SPLENIC ARTERY ANEURYSM (SAA) ............................
CELIAC ARTERY ANEURYSM (CAA) ...............................
GASTRIC AND GASTROEPIPLOIC ARTERY
ANEURYSMS ...............................................................................
HEPATIC ARTERY ANEURYSM (HAA) ...........................
Hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm ..............................
True HAA .....................................................................................

3S
3S
4S
5S
6S
6S
7S
7S
8S
8S
9S
9S
10S
10S
14S
18S

SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY ANEURYSM
(SMAA) ...........................................................................................
JEJUNAL, ILEAL, AND COLIC ARTERY
ANEURYSMS ...............................................................................
PANCREATICODUODENAL ARTERY ANEURYSM
(PDAA) AND GASTRODUODENAL ARTERY
ANEURYSM (GDAA) ................................................................
REFERENCES .............................................................................

26S
27S
29S
33S

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS

21S
23S
24S
24S

Renal artery aneurysm (RAA). 1.1: In patients who are
thought to have RAAs, we recommend computed
tomography angiography (CTA) as the diagnostic tool
of choice. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2: In patients who are thought to have RAA and have
increased radiation exposure risks or renal insufﬁciency,
we recommend non-contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) to establish the diagnosis.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low).

From the Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center,

Landry, Mahmoud Malas, Katherine McGinigle, J. Sheppard Mondy, Marc

Pittsburgha; the Division of Vascular Surgery, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimoreb; the Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Michigan Hospitals,
Ann Arborc; the Division of Vascular Surgery, University Hospitals Case Medi-

Schermerhorn, Cynthia Shortell.
Correspondence: Rabih A. Chaer, MD, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center,
200 Lothrop St, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (e-mail: chaerra@upmc.edu).

cal Center, Clevelandd; the Division of Vascular Surgery, New York University

The editors and reviewers of this article have no relevant ﬁnancial relationships to

Langone Medicine Center, New Yorke; and the Mayo Clinic Evidence-Based

disclose per the JVS policy that requires reviewers to decline review of any

Practice Center, Rochester.f

manuscript for which they may have a conﬂict of interest.

Author conﬂict of interest: none.

0741-5214

Independent peer review and oversight have been provided by members of

Copyright Ó 2020 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.

the Society for Vascular Surgery Document Oversight Committee: Drs

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2020.01.039

Thomas L. Forbes (Chair), Ruth Bush (Vice-Chair), Neal Barshes, Keith Calligaro, Ronald L. Dalman, Mark Davies, Yazan Duwayri, Alik Farber, Gregory

3S

4S

Chaer et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
July Supplement 2020

Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best
suited to children and women of childbearing potential
or those who have contraindications to CTA or MRA
contrast materials (ie, pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or
gadolinium contrast material allergy).
1.3: We recommend the use of catheter-based angiography both for preoperative planning and to better delineate distal renal artery branches that may be
inadequately assessed on conventional cross-sectional
imaging. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.1: In patients with noncomplicated RAA of acceptable
operative risk, we suggest treatment for aneurysm size
>3 cm. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.2: We recommend emergent intervention for any size
RAA resulting in patient symptoms or rupture. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.3: In patients of childbearing potential with noncomplicated RAA of acceptable operative risk, we suggest
treatment regardless of size. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.4: In patients with medically refractory hypertension
and functionally important renal artery stenosis, we suggest treatment regardless of size. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.1: We suggest daily antiplatelet therapy (ie, aspirin,
81 mg) for patients with RAA. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.2: We suggest open surgical reconstructive techniques for the elective repair of most RAAs in patients
with acceptable operative risk. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.3: We suggest ex vivo repair and autotransplantation
for complex distal branch aneurysms over nephrectomy
when it is technically feasible. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.4: We suggest endovascular techniques for the elective repair of anatomically appropriate RAAs to include
stent graft exclusion of main RAAs in patients with
poor operative risk and embolization of distal and parenchymal aneurysms. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.5: We suggest consideration of laparoscopic and
robotic techniques as an interventional alternative based
on institutional resources and surgeon experience with
minimally invasive techniques. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
4.1: We suggest screening female patients of childbearing age with RAA for ﬁbromuscular dysplasia with
a focused history and one-time axial imaging study (ie,
CTA or MRA) to assess for cerebrovascular, mesenteric,
and iliac artery dysplasia. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).

5.1: We suggest completion imaging after open surgical
reconstruction for RAA, before hospital discharge, by way
of axial imaging with CTA or MRA or arteriography in
select cases, and long-term follow-up with surveillance
imaging. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
5.2: For patients managed nonoperatively, we suggest
annual surveillance imaging until two consecutive studies
are stable; thereafter, surveillance imaging may be
extended to every 2 to 3 years. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
Splenic artery aneurysm (SAA). 1.1: We recommend
computed tomography angiography as the initial diagnostic tool of choice for SAAs. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
1.2: In patients with suspected SAAs and pre-existing
renal insufﬁciency limiting the use of iodinated contrast
material, we recommend magnetic resonance angiography to establish diagnosis. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
1.3: We recommend using arteriography when noninvasive studies have not sufﬁciently demonstrated the status
of relevant collateral blood ﬂow and when endovascular
intervention is planned. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.1: We recommend emergent intervention for
ruptured SAAs. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
2.2: We recommend treatment of nonruptured splenic
artery pseudoaneurysms of any size in patients of acceptable risk because of the possibility of rupture. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.3: We recommend treating nonruptured splenic
artery true aneurysms of any size in women of childbearing age because of the risk of rupture. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.4: We recommend treating nonruptured splenic
artery true aneurysms >3 cm, with a demonstrable
increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients
of acceptable risk because of the risk of rupture.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low).
2.5: We suggest observation over repair for small (<3 cm),
stable asymptomatic splenic artery true aneurysms or
those in patients with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities
or limited life expectancies. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.1: In patients with ruptured SAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest treatment with ligation with or without
splenectomy, depending on the aneurysm location.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

5S

Volume 72, Number 1S

3.2: In patients with ruptured SAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies, we suggest treatment with
open surgical or appropriate endovascular techniques
based on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical
condition. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.3: We suggest elective treatment of SAA using an
endovascular approach if it is anatomically feasible. However, elective treatment may appropriately involve open
surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods of intervention, depending on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.4: In treatment of SAA, we suggest that the splenic
artery does not routinely require preservation or revascularization. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.5: In treatment of distal SAA adjacent to the hilum of
the spleen, we suggest open surgical techniques
including possible splenectomy as opposed to endovascular methods, given concern for the possibility of endorgan ischemia, including splenic infarction and pancreatitis. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.6: In pregnant women with SAA, treatment decisions
should be individualized regardless of size, and the potential morbidity to both the mother and fetus should
be considered. (Ungraded best practice statement.)
4.1: We suggest screening of patients with SAAs for
other intra-abdominal, intrathoracic, intracranial, and peripheral artery aneurysms. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.1: In patients in whom an SAA is being observed with
a nonoperative or noninterventional approach, we suggest annual surveillance with computed tomography or
ultrasound to assess for growth in size. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.2: After endovascular intervention for SAAs, we
suggest periodic surveillance with computed tomography angiography, ultrasound, or magnetic resonance
angiography to assess for the possibility of endoleak or
other continued aneurysm perfusion that could lead
to a continued risk of aneurysm growth or rupture.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
Celiac artery aneurysm (CAA). 1.1 We suggest computed
tomography angiography (CTA) as the initial diagnostic
tool of choice for CAAs. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2 We suggest magnetic resonance angiography in patients with suspected CAA and pre-existing renal insufﬁciency limiting the use of iodinated contrast material.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).

1.3 We suggest arteriography when noninvasive studies
have not sufﬁciently demonstrated the status of relevant
collateral blood ﬂow or when endovascular intervention
is planned. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.1 We recommend emergent intervention for ruptured
CAAs. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: A (High).
2.2 We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac
artery pseudoaneurysms of any size in patients of acceptable operative risk because of the possibility of rupture.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.3 We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac
artery true aneurysms >2 cm, with a demonstrable increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients
of acceptable risk because of the risk of rupture. Level
of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.4 We suggest observation over intervention for small
(<2 cm), stable asymptomatic CAAs or those in patients
with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities or limited life expectancy. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.1 In patients with ruptured CAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest ligation if sufﬁcient collateral circulation
to the liver can be documented. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.2 In patients with ruptured CAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies who are stable, we recommend treatment with open surgical or appropriate
endovascular methods based on the patient’s anatomy
and underlying clinical condition. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
3.3 For the elective treatment of CAA, we suggest using
an endovascular intervention if it is anatomically feasible.
However, elective treatment may appropriately involve
open surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods
of intervention, depending on the patient’s anatomy
and underlying clinical condition. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
3.4 To determine the need for revascularization of the
celiac artery and its branches in treating CAA, we suggest
evaluating the status of the superior mesenteric artery,
gastroduodenal artery, and other relevant collateral circulation, which must be carefully documented on preoperative CTA or angiography. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
4.1 We suggest screening patients with CAAs for other
arterial aneurysms. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.1 In patients in whom a CAA is being observed with a
nonoperative or noninterventional approach, we suggest
annual surveillance with CTA scans to assess for growth

6S

Chaer et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
July Supplement 2020

in size. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.2: After endovascular intervention for CAAs, we suggest periodic surveillance with appropriate imaging
studies to assess for the possibility of endoleak or aneurysm reperfusion that could lead to a continued risk of
aneurysm growth or rupture. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
Gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms. 1.1: In patients who are thought to have gastric or gastroepiploic
artery aneurysms, we recommend computed tomography angiography (CTA) as the diagnostic tool of choice.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2: In patients who are thought to have gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms and have high radiation
exposure risks or renal insufﬁciency, we recommend
non-contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) for diagnosis. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best
suited to children and women of childbearing potential
or those who have contraindications to CTA or MRA
contrast materials (ie, pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or
gadolinium contrast material allergy).
1.3: We recommend the use of catheter-based angiography for all emergent cases presenting with rupture,
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate), and electively for preoperative planning, Level of Recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.1: We recommend treatment of all gastric artery and
gastroepiploic artery aneurysms of any size. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.1: We recommend endovascular embolization for ﬁrstline treatment of gastric artery and gastroepiploic artery
aneurysms. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
4.1: We suggest abdominal axial imaging to screen for
concomitant abdominal aneurysms. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
4.2: We suggest one-time screening CTA (or MRA) of the
head, neck, and chest for those patients with segmental
arterial mediolysis. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
5.1: We suggest interval surveillance (ie, every 1224 months) with axial imaging (ie, CTA or MRA) in cases
of segmental medial arteriolysis in light of reported cases
of rapid arterial transformation. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.2: We suggest postembolization surveillance every 1 to
2 years with axial imaging to assess for vascular

remodeling and evidence of aneurysm reperfusion. Level
of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
Hepatic artery aneurysm (HAA). 1.1: In patients who are
thought to have HAA, we recommend computed tomography angiography (CTA) as the diagnostic tool of
choice. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2: In patients with HAA who are considered for intervention, we recommend mesenteric angiography for
preoperative planning. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.1: Given the high propensity of rupture and signiﬁcant
antecedent mortality, we recommend that all hepatic artery pseudoaneurysms, regardless of cause, be repaired
as soon as the diagnosis is made. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
2.2.a: We recommend repair of all symptomatic HAAs
regardless of size. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
2.2.b: In asymptomatic patients without signiﬁcant
comorbidity, we recommend repair if true HAA is
>2 cm, Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: A (High), or if aneurysm enlarges
>0.5 cm/y, Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low). In patients with signiﬁcant
comorbidities, we recommend repair if HAA is >5.0 cm.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.3. We recommend repair of HAA in patients with vasculopathy or vasculitis, regardless of size, Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low). We recommend repair in HAA patients
with positive blood cultures, Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.1: We recommend an endovascular-ﬁrst approach to
all HAAs if it is anatomically feasible (ie, if this approach
maintains arterial circulation to the liver). Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence:
A (High).
3.2: In patients with extrahepatic aneurysms, we recommend open and endovascular techniques to maintain
liver circulation. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
3.3: In patients with intrahepatic aneurysms, we recommend coil embolization of the affected artery, Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate). In patients with large intrahepatic
aneurysms, we recommend resection of the involved
lobe of liver to avoid signiﬁcant liver necrosis, Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence:
C (Low).
4.1: We suggest abdominal axial imaging to screen for
concomitant intra-abdominal aneurysms in patients
who did not have CTA at the time of HAA diagnosis

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

7S

Volume 72, Number 1S

Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
4.2: We suggest one-time screening CTA or magnetic
resonance angiography of the head, neck, and chest for
those patients with nonatherosclerotic causes of HAA.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.1: We suggest annual follow-up with CTA or noncontrast-enhanced computed tomography to observe
patients with asymptomatic HAA. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
Superior mesenteric artery aneurysm (SMAA). 1.1: In
patients with SMAAs, we recommend computed tomography angiography (CTA) as the diagnostic tool of choice.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2: We recommend mesenteric angiography to delineate anatomy in preoperative planning for SMAA repair.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.1: We recommend repair of all true SMAAs and pseudoaneurysms as soon as the diagnosis is made regardless
of size. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: A (High).
2.2: We suggest careful observation of SMAA because of
dissection unless refractory symptoms develop. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence:
B (Moderate).
3.1: We recommend an endovascular-ﬁrst approach to all
SMAAs if it is anatomically feasible. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
4.1: We suggest abdominal axial imaging to screen for
concomitant intra-abdominal aneurysms in patients
who did not have CTA at the time of diagnosis. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence:
B (Moderate).
5.1: We suggest annual CTA to observe postsurgical patients. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
Jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysms. 1.1: In patients
who are thought to have jejunal artery, ileal artery, and
colic artery aneurysms, we recommend computed tomography angiography (CTA) as the diagnostic tool of
choice. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2: In patients with high radiation exposure risks or
renal insufﬁciency, we recommend non-contrastenhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) for
diagnosis. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best
suited to children and women of childbearing potential
or those who have contraindications to CTA or MRA

contrast materials (ie, pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or
gadolinium contrast material allergy).
1.3: We recommend the use of catheter-based angiography for all emergent cases presenting with rupture,
Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate), and electively for preoperative planning, Level of Recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
1.4: We suggest screening all patients with jejunal, ileal,
and colic artery aneurysms for vasculitis with routine inﬂammatory markers. Level of Recommendation: Grade
2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
2.1: We recommend elective intervention for jejunal and
ileal artery aneurysms >2 cm in maximal diameter and for
all colic artery aneurysms, any size. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
2.2: We recommend emergent intervention for any jejunal, ileal, or colic artery aneurysm, any size, resulting in
patient symptoms or rupture and all mesenteric branch
vessel pseudoaneurysms. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
3.1: We suggest open surgical ligation or aneurysm excision for cases of jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysms
when laparotomy is being considered for hematoma
evacuation or bowel assessment for viability. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.2: We suggest endovascular embolization for cases of
jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysm. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
3.3: We suggest medical treatment of nonruptured,
asymptomatic ileal, jejunal, and colic artery aneurysms
associated with polyarteritis nodosa. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
4.1: We suggest abdominal axial imaging to screen for
concomitant abdominal aneurysms. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
4.2: We suggest one-time screening CTA (or MRA) of the
head, neck, and chest for those patients with segmental
arterial mediolysis. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.1: We suggest interval surveillance (ie, every 1224 months) with axial imaging (ie, CTA or MRA) for cases
of segmental medial arteriolysis in light of reported cases
of rapid arterial transformation and to monitor regression
in cases of polyarteritis nodosa. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
5.2: We suggest postembolization surveillance every 1 to
2 years with axial imaging to assess for vascular remodeling and evidence of aneurysm reperfusion. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).

8S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm (PDAA) and
gastroduodenal artery aneurysm (GDAA). 1.1: In patients
who are thought to have GDAA and PDAA, we recommend computed tomography angiography (CTA) as the
diagnostic tool of choice. Level of Recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
1.2: In patients in whom celiac stenosis is suspected, we
suggest further workup with duplex ultrasound to elucidate whether the stenosis is hemodynamically signiﬁcant. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
1.3: In patients with high radiation exposure risks or
renal insufﬁciency, we suggest non-contrast-enhanced
magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) for diagnosis.
Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low).
Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best
suited to children and women of childbearing potential
or those who have contraindications to CTA or MRA
contrast materials (ie, pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or
gadolinium contrast material allergy).
2.1: In patients with noncomplicated GDAA and PDAA
of acceptable operative risk, we recommend treatment
no matter the size of the aneurysm because of the risk
of rupture. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.1: In patients with intact and ruptured aneurysms, we
recommend coil embolization as the treatment of
choice. Level of Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.2: In patients in whom coil embolization is not
feasible, we suggest covered stenting or stent-assisted
coil embolization as a treatment option in select cases
of GDAA and PDAA. Level of Recommendation: Grade
2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.3: In patients with appropriate anatomy, we suggest
transcatheter embolization with liquid embolic agents
as a treatment option for both GDAA and PDAA. Level
of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.4: In patients with suitable anatomy, we suggest ﬂowdiverting, multilayered stents as a treatment option for
GDAA and PDAA, although these have not been
adequately studied to be recommended as a primary
treatment modality. Level of Recommendation: Grade
2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
3.5: In patients with nonruptured aneurysms, we
suggest open surgical reconstruction if needed to preserve ﬂow. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
3.6: In patients with concomitant stenosis or occlusion,
we suggest celiac artery reconstruction. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate).
4.1: In patients with median arcuate ligament
syndrome, we suggest screening for GDAA or PDAA

with CTA or duplex ultrasound. Level of Recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low).
5.1: In patients status post treatment of GDAA and
PDAA, we recommend follow-up imaging after endovascular treatment of GDAA and PDAA to rule out
persistent ﬂow through the aneurysm sac. Level of
Recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate).

INTRODUCTION
Aneurysms of the visceral arteries are a rare but
clinically important vascular condition. Of all intraabdominal aneurysms, only approximately 5% affect
the visceral arteries. Visceral artery aneurysms include
both true aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms. Many
true visceral artery aneurysms are degenerative or
atherosclerotic in nature, with histologic specimens
demonstrating reduced smooth muscle, disruption of
elastic ﬁbers, and deﬁciency of the arterial media.1
Other common causes of visceral artery aneurysms
include ﬁbromuscular dysplasia, collagen vascular diseases, inﬂammatory conditions, and other rare
inherited illnesses, such as the Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.
As such, in patients with multiple aneurysms or aneurysms in different visceral beds, genetic testing is indicated for diagnostic and prognostic purposes. In
contrast to the causes of true aneurysms of the visceral
vessels, visceral artery pseudoaneurysms are most
commonly related to trauma, iatrogenic injury, local inﬂammatory processes, or infection.
The clinical signiﬁcance of visceral artery aneurysms is
mainly related to their potential for rupture and the
extreme challenge of emergent diagnosis and treatment
of these uncommon aneurysms once rupture has
occurred. Nearly one-fourth of visceral artery aneurysms
reported in the literature have presented with rupture,
and the reported mortality rate of these diagnosed ruptures is at least 10% and is likely to be much higher.2,3 Reported deaths after ruptured celiac artery aneurysms
and ruptured splenic artery aneurysms in pregnant
women approach 100%. Because of the increased use
of sophisticated forms of intra-abdominal imaging,
including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic
resonance angiography (MRA), computed tomography
(CT), and CT angiography (CTA), occult visceral artery aneurysms are being diagnosed with increased frequency.
These detailed imaging studies are allowing an
improved ability for vascular surgeons to identify asymptomatic lesions and an enhanced potential for preoperative or preprocedural planning and elective treatment of
these aneurysms. Improvements in endovascular therapies have also allowed an enhanced ability for treatment
of these often anatomically complex lesions with a large
variety of individualized and precise catheter-based
therapies.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

9S

Volume 72, Number 1S

However, the natural history of visceral aneurysms
and their potential for rupture or other complications
are relatively poorly deﬁned because of their overall
scarcity. The majority of the reports in the literature
consist of only one or two cases. Larger institutional
case series have been reported but rarely consist of
more than a compilation of several dozen cases. The
recent increase in the reports of visceral aneurysms in
the literature is mainly related to an escalation in the
use of novel and varied catheter-based techniques for
their treatment. Whereas much valuable information
may be gained from reading these individual reports,
they may be inherently predisposed toward a representation of unusual presentations and successful outcomes. However, it is clear even from these numerous
case reports that a signiﬁcant proportion of visceral artery aneurysms present with rupture; therefore, an
aggressive approach to their diagnosis and management certainly seems warranted.
It is somewhat difﬁcult to precisely characterize
which factors in an individual aneurysm will predispose to rupture. Splenic artery aneurysms are thought
to have a particular tendency toward rupture, especially during the third trimester of pregnancy.4 Visceral
artery pseudoaneurysms certainly have a higher
rupture potential than true aneurysms. Although larger
size would certainly seem to imply a higher chance of
rupture, small visceral aneurysms can rupture as well.
There is no ﬁrm evidence that calciﬁcation in a visceral
artery aneurysm protects against a risk of rupture.
When it occurs, rupture of visceral artery aneurysms
can occur into the peritoneal cavity, retroperitoneal
space, gastrointestinal tract, or biliary tract. Free
rupture into the peritoneal cavity resulting in hemoperitoneum is often termed abdominal apoplexy.
Rupture of visceral artery aneurysms may also be
manifested with life-threatening gastrointestinal hemorrhage as well.
Although not directed by randomized prospective
trials, general principles of management of visceral artery aneurysms do exist. Because of their potential for
rupture, most visceral artery pseudoaneurysms,
mycotic aneurysms, and many larger true aneurysms
warrant intervention. Treatment can generally be
accomplished by either open surgical or endovascular
approaches. The treatment goal is to prevent aneurysm expansion and potential rupture by exclusion
from the arterial circulation while maintaining necessary distal or collateral bed perfusion. Depending on
the location of the aneurysm, this can be accomplished in a variety of ways. In areas of the visceral
circulation with an abundance of collateral ﬂow, for
example, in the splenic artery, proximal and distal
ligation of the aneurysm segment is a viable surgical
option. This can also be accomplished with endovascular isolation of the aneurysmal segment, either by

placement of a stent graft or by coil embolization
of the proximal and distal arterial segment. The
preferred treatment of an individual patient and
aneurysm must be carefully based on the particular
anatomy and any associated clinical conditions as
well as the underlying condition of the patient. The
purpose of these guidelines is to inform the diagnosis, treatment options, screening, and follow-up of
visceral aneurysms based on the available published
literature and the Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE)
approach.5

METHODS
Guideline framework. The committee used the
GRADE approach to rate the quality of evidence (conﬁdence in the estimates) and to grade the strength of
recommendations. This system, adopted by >100 other
organizations, categorizes recommendations as strong
GRADE 1 or weak (also called conditional) GRADE 2
on the basis of the quality of evidence, the balance between desirable effects and undesirable ones, the patient’s values and preferences, and the required
resources.
GRADE 1 recommendations are meant to identify
practices for which beneﬁt clearly outweighs risk. These
recommendations can be made by clinicians and
accepted by patients with a high degree of conﬁdence.
GRADE 2 recommendations are made when the beneﬁts and risks are more closely matched and are more
dependent on speciﬁc clinical scenarios. In general,
physician and patient preferences play a more important role in the decision-making process in these
circumstances.
The Society for Vascular Surgery adapts GRADE so
that the level of evidence to support the recommendation is divided into three categories: A (high quality), B
(moderate quality), and C (low quality). Conclusions
based on high-quality evidence are unlikely to change
with further investigation, whereas those based on
moderate-quality evidence are more likely to be
affected by further scrutiny. Those based on lowquality evidence are the least supported by current
data and the most likely to be subject to change in
the future.
A GRADE 1 recommendation can occasionally be made
on the basis of low-quality (C) evidence. A full explanation of the GRADE approach has been presented to the
vascular surgery community.5-7 The Committee reached
consensus about all the recommendations and the level
of supporting evidence. These guidelines will require periodic updates to become a “living document” that will
be modiﬁed as techniques are further reﬁned, technology develops, medical therapy improves, and new data
emerge.

10S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Evidence synthesis. The Committee commissioned a
systematic review of MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane databases, and Scopus that had wide inclusion criteria. The
review included studies with 10 patients or more that reported outcomes of patients with visceral artery aneurysm treated with an open or endovascular approach.
Studies were comparative or noncomparative but had
to have longitudinal follow-up and to evaluate an
outcome of interest (mortality, need of reintervention,
myocardial infarction, stroke, end-organ ischemia, endorgan infarction, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary
embolism, postembolization syndrome, respiratory
complications, gastrointestinal complications, coil
migration, post-endovascular aortic repair rupture,
rupture during intervention, or wound complications [eg,
surgical site infection]). The systematic review eventually
summarized data from 80 observational studies that
were mostly noncomparative. Data were available on
2845 aneurysms (1279 renal artery; 775 splenic artery; 359
hepatic artery; 226 pancreaticoduodenal and gastroduodenal arteries; 95 superior mesenteric artery; 87 celiac
artery; 15 jejunal, ileal, and colic arteries; 9 gastric and
gastroepiploic arteries).8
A methodology group independently selected and
appraised studies and subsequently collaborated with
the committee to integrate evidence into recommendations. The Committee provided additional references
and monitored the literature for new evidence emerging
after the original search.

RENAL ARTERY ANEURYSM (RAA)

obtained for unrelated reasons. In a multicenter study,
CTA (58%) was the most commonly used modality for
the diagnosis and evaluation of RAAs, followed by noncontrast-enhanced CT (24%), MRA (6%), catheter angiography (5%), and ultrasound (4%).14 CTA with multiplanar,
maximal intensity projection reconstruction, volume
rendering, and three-dimensional reconstructions better
assess the arterial anatomic details of the renal arteries at
all branch levels, including intrapelvic and intraparenchymal locations.15-17 Thickness sections of 1 mm, if available,
should be favored for better anatomic deﬁnition.
Furthermore, the three-dimensional reconstructions
may give a better representation of the number and relation of all involved branches compared with twodimensional catheter angiography or ultrasound.
In certain patients, compromised renal function puts
them at increased risk of contrast-induced nephropathy.
In an effort to avoid the nephrotoxic effects of iodinated
contrast agents, non-contrast-enhanced MRA has been
used to assess the renal arteries. MRA can be performed
with a “breath-hold” steady-state free precession
sequence or time-spatial labeling inversion pulse technique. Studies evaluating steady-state free precession sequences have shown excellent concordance as well as
interobserver agreement with contrast-enhanced
MRA.18,19 Furthermore, time-spatial labeling inversion
pulse non-contrast-enhanced MRA has also shown
promise compared with contrast-enhanced CTA with
74% sensitivity, 93% speciﬁcity, and 90% accuracy.20
Whereas contrast-enhanced ultrasound has been used

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of RAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

In patients who are thought to have RAA, we recommend CTA as the diagnostic
tool of choice, with 1-mm-thickness sections if available.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

1.2

In patients who are thought to have RAA and have increased radiation exposure
risks or renal insufﬁciency, we recommend non-contrast-enhanced MRA to
establish the diagnosis (Grade 1C).

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best suited to children and
women of childbearing potential or those who have contraindications to CTA
or MRA contrast materials (ie pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or gadolinium
contrast material allergy).
1.3

If preoperative planning and recognition of distal renal artery branches cannot be
adequately assessed on conventional cross-sectional imaging (CTA), we
recommend the use of catheter-based angiography.

RAAs occur in approximately 0.1% of the population,
although the absolute incidence is unknown.9 Autopsy
studies are likely to underestimate RAA incidence at
0.01% to 0.09%,10,11 whereas angiographic studies are
likely to overestimate this at 0.73% to 0.97%.12,13 Overall,
RAAs are most commonly identiﬁed on imaging

in the evaluation of RAAs, this technique has not been
compared with other invasive and noninvasive angiographic techniques and is operator dependent.21 MRA
may also be considered in young patients and for routine
surveillance to decrease the risk of radiation-induced
malignant transformation with cumulative exposure.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

11S

Volume 72, Number 1S

Whereas three-dimensional CTA is the diagnostic tool
of choice for RAAs, the anatomic association of multiple
renal arteries may limit the surgeon’s ability to plan a
successful endovascular treatment. In such cases, preoperative three-dimensional rotational catheter-based
angiography may be of great beneﬁt in planning optimal
working angles.22 Furthermore, three-dimensional rotational catheter-based angiography has been shown to
be advantageous compared with two-dimensional catheter-based angiography in 75% of cases in evaluating the
neck, feeding arteries, and relationship between
branches of RAA.23
The ability of CTA to assess microaneurysms of the
distal renal vasculature may also be limited even with
comprehensive renal-speciﬁc CT protocols. This is due
to the rapid background enhancement of the renal parenchyma of the cortex.24 In such cases, CTA may show
parenchymal infarcts or extrarenal hematomas, consistent with distal microaneurysmal disease as seen in cases
of polyarteritis nodosa. However, catheter-based angiography
is
better
to
directly
visualize
distal
microaneurysms.25

several series support no incidence of rupture during
the surveillance of nonoperative RAAs out to
270 months.9,14,30,35-39 Most recent estimates suggest a
median annualized growth rate of 0.06 to
0.6 mm.14,39,40 The most recent and largest multiinstitutional retrospective series of nonoperative RAA
surveillance found no difference in growth rate based
on aneurysm morphology or calciﬁcation.14 These authors also reported the successful surveillance of 88 aneurysms measuring 2 to 3 cm and 7 aneurysms
measuring >3 cm without complication or rupture.
The revised 3-cm size threshold for repair is based on
limited literature, however, making this a Grade 2C
conditional recommendation where variation in care
is acceptable on the basis of individualized clinical decision-making.
It is unclear based on the current literature whether
branch aneurysms or saccular aneurysms behave differently, but classic teaching associates such aneurysm
morphology with a more aggressive risk of rupture. As
such, they might merit invasive treatment regardless of
size.

2. Size criteria and alternative indications for intervention
Recommendations for indications for intervention in RAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

In patients with noncomplicated RAA of acceptable operative risk, we suggest
treatment for aneurysm size >3 cm.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

2.2

We recommend emergent intervention for any size RAA resulting in patient symptoms
or rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.3

In patients of childbearing potential with noncomplicated RAA of acceptable operative
risk, we suggest treatment regardless of size.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

2.4

In patients with medically refractory hypertension and functionally important renal
artery stenosis, we suggest treatment regardless of size.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Previous guidelines have suggested the repair of most
visceral artery aneurysms >2 cm in maximum diameter.26 Whereas no prospective or randomized trial
directly compares operative repair of intermediate
RAAs >2 cm with surveillance, the natural history of
these aneurysms appears more benign than historic
rates have suggested, with lower associated risks of
rupture, slow to null rates of growth, and improved survival after rupture apparent from more contemporary
series.
The natural history of RAAs appears to be that of slow or
no growth.27 Contemporary reports do not support historic series that described rupture rates as high as 14%
to 30% with associated mortality of 80%.9,28,29 Modernday rupture rates are estimated at 3% to 5%, with nongestational mortality improved to <10%.9,30-34 Most ruptures are diagnosed at the time of presentation, and

Ruptured RAAs are associated with a mortality of
approximately 10% in the general population and
maternal and fetal death in 55% and 85%, respectively.37,41 Emergent surgery is required to prevent exsanguination; aortic control may be necessary. In many
cases, renal artery reconstruction and renal salvage may
not be feasible, and thus nephrectomy should be
considered.
Pregnancy has been associated with increased risk and
rates of rupture, presumptively secondary to hemodynamic changes and increased vascular volume and
ﬂow during pregnancy, abdominal pressure changes
secondary to mass effect from the gravid uterus, and hormonal changes that may disrupt the vessel wall.27,41-43
Pregnancy-associated rupture appears to complicate
the third trimester in most cases, with postpartum
rupture infrequently referenced in case reports only.44,45

12S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Whereas no large-scale studies detail the true incidence
of gestational renal aneurysm rupture, in a series of
180,000 pregnancies brought to term, no ruptures were
identiﬁed.46 Despite this, small aneurysm size (ie, 1 cm)
at rupture and high historic rates of maternal and fetal
mortality that approximate 56% to 92% and 82% to
100%, respectively, support the more aggressive treatment of RAAs in women of childbearing potential.36,41,47
Contemporary outcomes for both mother and fetus
may be improving as there are reports of gestational
rupture with both maternal and fetal survival.44,48
Two-thirds of patients with RAA also have
hypertension.9,31,36,37,39,40,49-52 Clinically relevant renal artery stenosis is present in 7% to 66% of patients with RAA
across series, and although renal artery occlusive disease
is not evidenced in all RAA patients with hypertension, it
does remain a valid indication for intervention. Whereas
the mechanism driving hypertension in RAA patients remains elusive, additional hypotheses include distal parenchymal embolization, compression or kinking of
associated renal artery branches, and hemodynamic
changes from turbulent blood ﬂow within the aneurysm
resulting in decreased distal renal artery perfusion
pressures.9,27,49,53,54 Whatever the etiology, most series
suggest improvement or cure in the majority of hypertensive patients undergoing RAA reconstruction, particularly
if renovascular hypertension is identiﬁed during the
preoperative workup.14,31,32,36-39,49,51,52,55 Martin et al36
evaluated for renovascular hypertension preoperatively
and demonstrated that 100% of those operated on
with documented renovascular hypertension improved
or were cured of hypertension, whereas only 60% of
those with an unremarkable workup for stenosis were
cured or improved. Pfeiffer et al50 similarly noted a
differential
improvement
in
hypertension
after
aneurysm repair in those with documented renal artery
stenosis (67%) in comparison to those without
stenosis (29%).

Distal parenchymal embolization has been described
in 8% to 11% of patients with RAA and may be associated
with the presence of mural thrombus within the aneurysm sac.49,50 Duplex ultrasound may demonstrate evidence of microembolization, although elevated
resistance in this setting may be difﬁcult to differentiate
from nephrosclerosis.27
The variable conventional in situ reconstructions available include aneurysm resection with primary angioplastic closure (with or without branch reimplantation),
patch angioplasty, primary reanastomosis, interposition
bypass, aortorenal bypass, splanchnic-renal bypass, and
plication of small aneurysms. Surgery consistently offers
low elective mortality rates that approach 0% across series.14,32,34,37-39,49,51,56-58 Perioperative morbidity is not
insigniﬁcant and is mainly reported <20% after in situ
reconstruction, and secondary nephrectomy rates,
when reported, are 0% to 21%.14,31,32,34,37-39,49,51 In addition, the reported durable primary patency rates (93%100%) are of utmost importance in light of the young
age of many patients and excellent projected longterm survival that averages 90% at 10 years.31,32,49,59
The technical approach selected should be dictated
entirely by the patient’s arterial and aneurysmal anatomy.
Whereas there are no prospective or randomized
data comparing open surgical techniques, Henke et al37
noted no difference in long-term event-free outcome
of patients undergoing aneurysmectomy with angioplastic closure or aneurysmectomy with bypass, with
mean life span calculated at 108 and 130 months,
respectively. Pfeiffer et al50 demonstrated superior
patency rates for angioplastic repairs in comparison
to those reconstructions requiring saphenous vein
interposition (100% vs 73%). Moreover, this technique
yields no recurrent aneurysmal degeneration with
follow-up.37,50 Whereas cooled (4 ) renal perfusion
supplemented with mannitol or prostaglandin E has
been advocated by several authors either routinely or

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of RAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

We suggest daily antiplatelet therapy (ie, low-dose aspirin) for patients with RAA.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.2

We suggest open surgical reconstructive techniques for the elective repair of most
RAAs in patients with acceptable operative risk.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.3

We suggest ex vivo repair and autotransplantation for complex distal branch
aneurysms over nephrectomy when it is technically feasible.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.4

We suggest endovascular techniques for the elective repair of anatomically appropriate
RAAs to include stent graft exclusion of main RAAs in patients with poor operative
risk and embolization of distal and parenchymal aneurysms.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.5

We suggest consideration of laparoscopic and robotic techniques as an interventional
alternative based on institutional resources and surgeon experience with minimally
invasive techniques.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

13S

Volume 72, Number 1S

when >30 to 40 minutes of warm renal ischemia is
anticipated to reduce the risk of acute tubular necrosis,
there are no prospective or randomized data to support this practice.37,49,50,60
Although historically treated with nephrectomy, current data support that complex distal branch lesions
are best approached with ex vivo repair and autotransplantation. The largest series of such follow.
Murray et al61 have described a 92% success rate with
in situ bifurcation and ex vivo multibranch replacement with branched and unbranched internal iliac artery autograft in 12 patients without mortality or major
morbidity. Gallagher et al62 reported on seven ex vivo
reconstructions after laparoscopic nephrectomy for
complex aneurysmal disease to avoid incisional
morbidity; these authors described excellent technical
success, no mortality, no ureteral morbidity, and 28%
incidence of perioperative morbidity. Chandra et al38
compared in situ and ex vivo reconstructions for renal
aneurysm across 10 patients and noted no signiﬁcant
difference in hospital length of stay, morbidity (20%),
mortality (null), or need for reoperation at follow-up.
In addition, 100% of reconstructions were patent by
imaging obtained during the ﬁrst year of follow-up.
Case reports and small series that suggest indications
for endovascular repair have broadened with the introduction of three-dimensional detachable coils, nonadhesive liquid embolic agents (eg, Onyx [Medtronic,
Irvine, Calif]), remodeling techniques (which include
balloon- and stent-assisted coiling), and ﬂow diverter
stents (eg, the Cardiatis multilayer stent [Cardiatis,
Isnes, Belgium]), although traditional endovascular
therapies have simply used embolization techniques
for distal and parenchymal aneurysms and stent graft
exclusion for main renal artery lesions.63-70 Technical
success across larger series is reported as 73% to
100%, with highly variable rates of morbidity (13%-

Prospective comparisons of open and endovascular
therapies for RAA are needed, although the feasibility
of such a trial is limited primarily by the low frequency
of this pathologic process. To this end, there have been
retrospective comparisons. A recent statewide database
review identiﬁed 215 patients who underwent RAA repair
between 2000 and 2006.33 These authors noted a significant increase in the number of RAA repairs with a stable
number of open repairs and an increase in the number
of endovascular repairs. Analysis of in-hospital outcome
events revealed similar mortality rates (1.1% endovascular
vs 3.3% open) and variable patterns of perioperative
morbidity; open repair was associated with more cardiac
(P ¼ .053) and infectious (P ¼ .053) complications,
whereas endovascular repair was associated with more
hemorrhagic complications (P ¼ .08), presumed to be
access related. Importantly, a signiﬁcant reduction in
median hospital length of stay and need for postdischarge nursing services was identiﬁed in the endovascular cohort accompanied by a trend toward lower cost.
Additional retrospective comparisons of open and endovascular procedures have reported no signiﬁcant difference in mortality, perioperative morbidity, freedom
from reintervention, or decline in renal function and the
beneﬁt of a shortened length of stay.2,14,34
Robot-assisted laparoscopy techniques for RAA repair
have only more recently been described.77-80 This
approach typically requires a multidisciplinary collaborative procedural team of vascular, general, transplantation, and urology surgeons. The dexterity of the robotic
arms reportedly confers a technical advantage to complex aneurysmectomy and intracorporeal vascular suturing for reconstruction. Technical success has been
reported in case series with warm ischemia times between 15 and 60 minutes; however, a direct comparison
to open and endovascular techniques has yet to be
performed.77,78,80

4. Additional screening
Recommendations for treatment of RAA
Recommendation
4.1

We suggest screening female patients with RAA for ﬁbromuscular dysplasia
with a focused history and one-time axial imaging study (ie, CTA or MRA) to
assess for cerebrovascular, mesenteric, and iliac artery dysplasia.

60%) that include mainly evidence of end-organ malperfusion radiographically from thromboembolism
and subsequent postembolectomy syndrome.6,34,71-75
Midterm follow-up is available out to 3 to 4 years in
certain series.72,74,76 Access-related complication, arterial dissection, and renal compromise are uncommon,
and low rates of recanalization have been observed
requiring reintervention (4%-13%).6,71-75

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

RAAs are associated with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia in up
to 68% of cases and concomitant arterial aneurysms
affecting the aorta and visceral and iliac vessels in 7%
to 30% of cases.14,31,34,36,37,39,40,50,51,58 The most recent scientiﬁc statement from the American Heart Association
recommends a focused vascular review of symptoms
for all patients diagnosed with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia,
with an emphasis on quality of life-impairing symptoms

14S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

like migraine headache, tinnitus, and neck pain.81 In
addition, one-time screening for occult aortic or arterial
aneurysm in these patients is recommended.

diagnosis of incidental SAAs in the United States is primarily related to the liberal use of cross-sectional imaging studies.84 Most SAAs currently are detected

5. Follow-up and surveillance
Recommendations for treatment of RAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

5.1

We suggest completion imaging after open surgical reconstruction for RAA, before
hospital discharge, by way of axial imaging with CTA or MRA or arteriography in select
cases, and long-term follow-up with surveillance imaging.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

5.2

For patients managed nonoperatively, we suggest annual surveillance imaging until
two consecutive studies are stable; thereafter, surveillance imaging may be extended
to every 2 to 3 years

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Most earlier series advocate completion imaging before
hospital discharge by way of arteriography or ultrasound.
In the more modern era, this can probably be replaced
with axial imaging with CTA or MRA, obviating the limitations of ultrasound in the postoperative period and the
invasiveness of angiography and long-term follow-up
with surveillance imaging.9,31,37,49,50,61
The natural history of RAAs appears to be that of slow to
null growth. Most recent estimates suggest a median
annualized growth rate of 0.06 to 0.6 mm.14,39,40 The
most recent and largest multi-institutional retrospective
series of nonoperative RAA surveillance found no difference in growth rate based on aneurysm morphology or
calciﬁcation.14 Whereas short-term follow-up at 1 year remains prudent for a newly diagnosed RAA, longer intervals between surveillance imaging may be appropriate,
provided the patient’s compliance with follow-up can
be ensured.

SPLENIC ARTERY ANEURYSM (SAA)

incidentally during diagnostic imaging performed for
other indications.83 Whereas plain radiography, ultrasound, CT, MRA, and arteriography have identiﬁed
SAAs, CTA remains the initial diagnostic and evaluative
tool of choice.83
CTA is an important imaging modality for the vascular
system and has been established as the method of
choice for the diagnosis, treatment planning, and
follow-up of most diseases of the abdominal arteries
including the aorta and visceral vessels. Besides being
able to assess the location and size of the SAA, CTA
may also reveal rupture, intra-abdominal hemorrhage,
and associated underlying diseases. In addition, nearly
all necessary data for planning endovascular treatment
can be obtained by multidimensional CTA.83 Ultrasound
examination of visceral vessels is inhibited by shadowing
from bowel gas as well as by obesity; however, its sensitivity to detect SAA <3 cm is poor.83,85 MRA may certainly
play a role in patients in whom CTA is contraindicated.
However, in 2006, Pilleul et al86 compared the use of

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of SAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

We recommend CTA as the initial diagnostic tool of choice for SAAs, with 1-mmthickness sections if available.

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

1.2

In patients with suspected SAAs and pre-existing renal insufﬁciency limiting the
use of iodinated contrast material, we recommend MRA to establish diagnosis.

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

1.3

We recommend using arteriography when noninvasive studies have not
sufﬁciently demonstrated the status of relevant collateral blood ﬂow and when
endovascular intervention is planned.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

Although they were once thought to be uncommon,
splenic and other visceral artery aneurysms are being
diagnosed with increasing frequency with the use of
advanced imaging techniques.82,83 The increasing

MRA and CTA for the analysis of splanchnic aneurysms
and thought that the sensitivity of MRA was suboptimal
in the case of small aneurysms.
Formal arteriography may rarely be necessary for preinterventional planning when noninvasive studies have not

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

15S

Volume 72, Number 1S

sufﬁciently demonstrated the status of relevant anatomy or
collateral blood ﬂow. However, it is most frequently performed at the time of a planned endovascular intervention.

pseudoaneurysms are at increased risk for rupture
and that diameter is not necessarily a reliable predictor
of rupture.92

2. Treatment indications, size criteria, and true vs false aneurysms
Recommended criteria for invasive intervention for SAA
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

We recommend emergent intervention for ruptured SAAs.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

2.2

We recommend treatment of nonruptured splenic artery pseudoaneurysms of any size
in patients of acceptable risk because of the possibility of rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.3

We recommend treating nonruptured splenic artery true aneurysms of any size in
women of childbearing age because of the risk of rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.4

We recommend treating nonruptured splenic artery true aneurysms $3 cm, with a
demonstrable increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients of acceptable
risk because of the risk of rupture.

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

2.5

We suggest observation over repair for small (<3 cm), stable asymptomatic splenic
artery true aneurysms or those in patients with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities or
limited life expectancies.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

The natural history of visceral aneurysms and their potential for rupture or other complications are relatively
poorly deﬁned because of their overall scarcity. However,
it is clear even from the numerous case series in the literature that a signiﬁcant proportion of visceral artery aneurysms present with rupture; therefore, a relatively
aggressive approach to their diagnosis and management
certainly seems warranted. The overall mortality of
ruptured SAAs is as high as 25%.87
SAAs in young women are thought to have a particular
tendency toward rupture, especially during the third
trimester of pregnancy.88 Pregnancy may be associated
with 20% to 50% of all ruptures.89 Rupture of an SAA
during pregnancy has devastating maternal and fetal
mortality rates of 80% and 90%, respectively.90,91
Depending on the entirety of vessel wall involvement,
SAAs can be subdivided into true aneurysms or pseudoaneurysms.
Splenic
artery
pseudoaneurysms
certainly have a higher rupture potential than true aneurysms. Furthermore, some evidence suggests that
pseudoaneurysms display relatively rapid growth rates,
implicating a focus on early intervention regardless of
size. In the series by Tulsyan et al,1 in which 48 visceral
aneurysms were treated, 80% of 28 pseudoaneurysms
were symptomatic at presentation as opposed to
30% of 20 true aneurysms. Pitton et al92 reported a review of 233 patients with 253 visceral artery aneurysms.
The rate of rupture at presentation was noted to be
signiﬁcantly higher in visceral pseudoaneurysms than
in true aneurysms (76.3% vs 3.1%). There were 35 ruptures in their series. There was no signiﬁcant difference
in size between ruptured and nonruptured visceral aneurysms. The authors concluded that visceral

Nevertheless, several large case series of SAA management have included an observation cohort with acceptable results.93-95 General guidelines state that true
SAAs <3 cm, asymptomatic, and showing little or no
growth can be safely observed and monitored with serial
imaging studies. As indicated before, splenic artery pseudoaneurysms and SAAs in women who are either pregnant or of childbearing age should be treated
regardless of size.90,96 There is no ﬁrm evidence to
show that aneurysm calciﬁcation protects against
growth or rupture, but calciﬁed SAAs may be associated
with smaller size at initial diagnosis.94
A large review was reported from the Mayo Clinic
involving 217 patients with SAAs. Of these patients, 168
underwent nonoperative management for a mean
period of 75 months.95 The mean size in the nonoperative group was 2.1 cm with a range from 0.8 to 5 cm in
diameter. Approximately half of these aneurysms were
monitored with serial imaging, of which only 10% were
noted to have growth averaging 0.06 cm/y. No rupture
or other complications related to the SAAs occurred,
and only 3 of the original 168 required eventual intervention because of aneurysm growth. Similar results were reported by Lakin et al94 in review of the Cleveland Clinic
experience of 128 SAAs managed during a 15-year period.
This observational cohort of 66 SAAs had a mean size of
1.7 cm at presentation with a range from 0.8 to 4.2 cm.
Serial imaging was available for 94% of the aneurysms,
and these patients received an average of 2.5 CT scans
during 4.6 years of follow-up. The average growth rate
was a nominal 0.2 mm/y during 3.1 years of follow-up.
There were again no ruptures or other complications
attributed to the aneurysms in the observed group.

16S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Observation of small, <3-cm, true aneurysms therefore
seems an appropriate approach except in women of
childbearing age.
Additional suggested indications for intervention in
SAAs include patients with portal hypertension, patients
who may require liver transplantation, patients whose
aneurysm has a nonatherosclerotic or nondegenerative
cause, and patients whose aneurysm demonstrates interval growth >0.5 cm/y.97

performed operation. This is clearly required when the
aneurysm involves intrasplenic branches within the
splenic parenchyma. Distal pancreatectomy may occasionally be warranted in treatment of these distal lesions
as well.98,99 Laparoscopic repair of SAA by clipping or
exclusion has been reported; intraoperative ultrasound
is believed to be an important adjunct to this procedure.100 Combined laparoscopic occlusion and coil embolization has been proposed as a treatment method for

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of SAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

In patients with ruptured SAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest treatment with
ligation with or without splenectomy, depending on the aneurysm location.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.2

In patients with ruptured SAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies, we suggest
treatment with open surgical or appropriate endovascular techniques based on the
patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.3

We suggest elective treatment of SAA using an endovascular approach if it is
anatomically feasible. However, elective treatment may appropriately involve open
surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods of intervention, depending on the
patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.4

In treatment of SAA, we suggest that the splenic artery does not routinely require
preservation or revascularization.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.5

In treatment of distal SAA adjacent to the hilum of the spleen, we suggest open
surgical techniques including possible splenectomy as opposed to endovascular
methods, given concern for the possibility of end-organ ischemia, including splenic
infarction and pancreatitis.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.6

In pregnant women with SAA, treatment decisions should be individualized regardless
of size, and the potential morbidity to both the mother and fetus should be
considered.

Ungraded best practice
statement

Treatment of SAA can generally be accomplished by
either open surgical or endovascular approaches. In
areas of the visceral circulation with an abundance of
collateral ﬂow, as in the splenic artery, proximal and
distal ligation of the aneurysm segment is a viable surgical option. This can also be accomplished with endovascular isolation of the aneurysmal segment, either by
placement of a stent graft or by coil embolization of
the proximal and distal arterial segment. The preferred
treatment of an individual patient and aneurysm must
be carefully based on the particular anatomy and any
associated clinical conditions as well as the underlying
condition of the patient.
The traditional surgical management of SAA includes
proximal and distal ligation and aneurysmectomy for lesions in the proximal or middle portion of the splenic artery. Revascularization of the distal splenic artery is
generally not warranted because collateral ﬂow to the
spleen is maintained by the short gastric arteries. For
more distal lesions adjacent to the splenic hilum and
for mycotic aneurysms, excision with or without splenectomy has traditionally been the most commonly

aberrant SAA located in the retropancreatic position, in
which traditional surgical exposure would be exceedingly difﬁcult.101
Endovascular approaches to managing visceral artery
aneurysms offer the beneﬁt of low procedural morbidity
and mortality and are generally considered to be the
preferred initial approach to most anatomically suitable
visceral aneurysms considered appropriate for intervention.1 Endoluminal ablation of SAAs has been shown in
multiple reported series to be highly technically successful, but there is some concern of end-organ malperfusion
and aneurysm reperfusion during follow-up.1,102
Endovascular treatment options include coil embolization of the splenic artery both proximal and distal to the
aneurysm itself, effectively “trapping” the lesion. Other
options for a saccular-type aneurysm include embolization of the aneurysm sac itself with coils or cyanoacrylate
glue and occlusion of the lesion with percutaneous or
open thrombin injection.103 In addition, stent grafting
has been performed, particularly for saccular lesions of
the mid splenic artery. There has been concern about
splenic infarction or pancreatitis when embolization of

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

17S

Volume 72, Number 1S

very distal splenic artery lesions has been performed.104,105
In a review of 48 endovascular procedures for visceral artery pseudoaneurysms, 20 interventions on the splenic artery were performed.1 Six end-organ infarcts in this series
were identiﬁed; all were within the splenic bed. Two additional patients displayed splenic atrophy on CT scanning
after prior embolization of the splenic artery, without
obvious clinical evidence for initial splenic infarction. In
another report, one episode of splenic infarction associated with severe pancreatitis was noted after embolization of a distal splenic artery lesion.105 However, other
authors have noted splenic infarction after embolization
of even more proximal SAAs as well.7
Ruptured SAAs are challenging and represent a true surgical emergency. Patients should be expeditiously transferred to the operating room for exploratory laparotomy in
the setting of hemodynamic collapse. Ligation of the
splenic artery proximally and distally is required. Patients
presenting with ruptured SAA are most often treated with
concomitant splenectomy without vascular reconstruction.

superior to open surgery in this model. However, the authors concluded that elderly patients should be considered for conservative therapy, given the small
incremental beneﬁt and high cost. An open surgical
approach may remain appropriate in cases of rupture
and pregnancy-related SAAs107 as well as in the setting
of mycotic aneurysms.
Patients undergoing urgent ligation of SAA or splenectomy should be vaccinated on or after postoperative day 14 to decrease the risk of overwhelming
postsplenectomy sepsis due to organisms such as
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus inﬂuenzae
type B, and Neisseria meningitidis. Patients undergoing elective repair of SAA who are at risk of splenic
loss if the splenic artery cannot be preserved
with planned embolization or with known preoperative anatomic challenges to stent grafting that
could lead to fallback embolization should be
considered for vaccination at least 14 days BEFORE
intervention.

4. Screening
Recommendations for screening of patients with SAA
Recommendation
4.1

We suggest screening of patients with SAAs for other intra-abdominal, intrathoracic,
intracranial, and peripheral artery aneurysms.

The immediate beneﬁts associated with endovascular
intervention include local anesthesia, shorter hospital
stay, and faster recovery. Drawbacks to endovascular
therapy include end-organ embolization and a relatively higher rate of failure compared with open surgery. Last, patients with splenic artery ablation for
SAA can develop postembolization syndrome with
ongoing pain, fevers, and other systemic symptoms.
Complete exclusion of ﬂow within the aneurysm sac
occurred in 97% of interventions with follow-up imaging in the Cleveland Clinic experience. In the Mayo
Clinic experience, initial intervention was successful
98% of the time. Coiling was used alone in 75% of
the cases and in combination with at least one other
technique in 11% of cases.
The risk of end-organ ischemia appears to be an especially salient concern pertaining to endovascular repair.
Some authors have concluded that patients with aneurysmal disease at the splenic hilum may be better
managed with open repair and splenectomy.105
A study using a Markov decision model compared open
surgery vs endovascular repair vs conservative therapy for
a patient with SAA.106 Endovascular repair was found to
be associated with highest quality of life and to be the
most cost-effective strategy for most groups, and it was

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

SAAs may be multiple and may be found in association
with other visceral and nonvisceral aneurysms. In a review of 212 cases of SAAs seen during a two-decade
period at a single institution, 3.3% of patients were found
to have concomitant visceral aneurysms, with the most
common location being extrahepatic (2.3%) and additionally including aneurysms in the celiac, superior
mesenteric, gastric, and pancreaticoduodenal territories.108 In addition, 14.3% of patients were found to
have concomitant nonvisceral aneurysms, with the
most common location being renal (7.4%) and abdominal aortic (3.7%) and additionally including aneurysms
in the carotid, intracerebral, thoracic aortic, and popliteal
territories.108
SAAs selected for conservative management with
observation require surveillance to assess for progression
and size growth. The mode of assessment and the
appropriate imaging technique depend on the visibility
of the aneurysm to the various imaging techniques available.84 CT or ultrasound should be performed every
12 months; CT is generally preferred because of the
detailed cross-sectional imaging provided, and it can
be done with or without contrast enhancement.84
This strategy appears to be safe on the basis of the literature described earlier from the Mayo Clinic94 and the

18S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

5. Surveillance and follow-up
Recommendations for surveillance and follow-up of SAA patients
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

5.1

In patients in whom an SAA is being observed with a nonoperative or noninterventional
approach, we suggest annual surveillance with CT or ultrasound to assess for growth
in size.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

5.2

After endovascular intervention for SAAs, we suggest periodic surveillance with CTA,
ultrasound, or MRA to assess for the possibility of endoleak or aneurysm reperfusion
that could lead to a continued risk of aneurysm growth or rupture.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Cleveland Clinic.93 There were again no ruptures or other
complications attributed to the aneurysms in the
observed group.
In the study of Saltzberg et al,105 a total of 38 visceral aneurysms were observed during a mean follow-up period
of 31 months, including 5 celiac aneurysms and 25
splenic aneurysms. The mean diameter in the observation group was 2 cm. No known ruptures or interventions
occurred in the observation group, but complete followup was available in only 50% of the patients.

Treatment failure including persistent perfusion, recanalization, and coil migration has been observed. The potential for early or late failure, such as growth in sac size
or leak that would require reintervention, requires early
and serial imaging follow-up.93,97 Because artifact due
to the radiopaque materials used may make sensitive
CT evaluation difﬁcult, some authors recommend
contrast-enhanced ultrasound or MRI as follow-up imaging techniques.6,97

CELIAC ARTERY ANEURYSM (CAA)

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of CAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

We suggest CTA as the initial diagnostic tool of choice for CAAs.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

1.2

We suggest MRA in patients with suspected CAA and pre-existing renal insufﬁciency
limiting the use of iodinated contrast material.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

1.3

We suggest arteriography when noninvasive studies have not sufﬁciently demonstrated
the status of relevant collateral blood ﬂow or when endovascular intervention is
planned.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Continued surveillance, even after secondary technical
success, is imperative as the natural history of visceral artery aneurysms after endovascular treatment remains
unclear. This is especially true of saccular aneurysms
treated with coil or thrombin embolization; unlike formal
exclusion with a covered stent, these aneurysms are not
technically “excluded” from arterial circulation. Indeed,
sac thrombosis may not protect the aneurysm sac from
pressure transmitted through thrombus, and eventual
sac growth or rupture may still occur.109,110 Reports of
reperfusion and even rupture after “successful” embolization of visceral aneurysms support the notion that a
thrombosed aneurysm may not represent the deﬁnitive
treatment in all cases.111,112 Other authors also noted
that regular follow-up with duplex ultrasound or CT is
necessary for patients with visceral aneurysms treated
by embolization.113 The recanalization rates after endovascular intervention were 18% and 30%, respectively, in
two reported series.111,114

Although they were once thought to be uncommon,
CAAs are being diagnosed with increasing frequency
with the use of advanced imaging techniques.82,83 The
increasing diagnosis of incidental visceral aneurysms in
the United States is primarily related to the liberal use
of cross-sectional imaging studies.84 Most visceral aneurysms currently are detected incidentally during diagnostic imaging performed for other indications.83
Whereas plain radiography, ultrasound, CT, MRA, and
arteriography have identiﬁed CAAs, CTA remains the
initial diagnostic and evaluative tool of choice.83
Besides being able to assess the location and size of the
CAA, CTA may also reveal rupture, intra-abdominal hemorrhage, and associated underlying diseases as well as
celiac axis stenosis, which should be systematically evaluated on axial imaging of patients with CAAs. In addition,
nearly all necessary data for planning endovascular treatment can be obtained by multidimensional CTA.83

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

19S

Volume 72, Number 1S

Ultrasound examination of visceral vessels is inhibited by
shadowing from bowel gas as well as by obesity; however, its sensitivity to detect CAA of <3 cm is poor.83,85 MRA
may certainly play a role in patients in whom CTA is contraindicated. However, in 2006, Pilleul et al86 compared
the use of MRA and CTA for the analysis of splanchnic aneurysms and believed that the sensitivity of MRA was
suboptimal in the case of small aneurysms.
Formal arteriography may rarely be necessary for preinterventional planning when noninvasive studies have not
sufﬁciently demonstrated the status of relevant anatomy
or collateral blood ﬂow. However, it is most frequently
performed at the time of a planned endovascular
intervention.

that CAAs after spontaneous dissection behave differently,
and no distinct recommendation for this subgroup can be
made. Similarly, patients with post-stenotic dilation of the
celiac artery due to compression by the median arcuate
ligament have a different pathologic process and require
individualized decision-making. They should be treated
conservatively unless they become symptomatic or are
determined to have true aneurysmal degeneration.
Like other visceral aneurysms, pseudoaneurysms of the
celiac artery appear more prone to rupture than true aneurysms, and most authors recommend treatment of all
visceral pseudoaneurysms in any anatomic territory. In
the series by Tulsyan et al1 in which 48 visceral aneurysms
were treated, 80% of 28 pseudoaneurysms were symp-

2. Treatment indications, size criteria, and true vs false aneurysms
Recommended intervention criteria for CAA
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

We recommend emergent intervention for ruptured CAAs.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

2.2

We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac artery pseudoaneurysms of any size
in patients of acceptable operative risk because of the possibility of rupture.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.3

We recommend treatment of nonruptured celiac artery true aneurysms >2 cm, with a
demonstrable increase in size, or with associated symptoms in patients of acceptable
risk because of the risk of rupture.

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

2.4

We suggest observation over intervention for small (<2 cm), stable asymptomatic CAAs
or those in patients with signiﬁcant medical comorbidities or limited life expectancy.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Numerous case reports and series in the literature have
shown that a signiﬁcant proportion of CAAs present with
rupture. Therefore, an aggressive approach to their diagnosis and management certainly seems warranted. Reported mortality after ruptured CAA approaches 100%.
CAAs appear to have a strong tendency to rupture with
a resultant high mortality rate; it was reported that 33 of
34 patients with CAA diagnosed in 1943 died of rupture.115
The overall reported risk for rupture appears to range
from 10% to 20%.116,117 The majority of patients with
CAA have been described as symptomatic at presentation, although occult asymptomatic aneurysms are
more likely to be diagnosed radiologically in the current
era. Rupture has been reported to occur in approximately 5% of celiac trunk aneurysms ranging from 15 to
22 mm in diameter and in 50% to 70% of those that
exceed 32 mm in diameter.118,119
There are no absolute size criteria with which to direct
the indication for treatment; however, treatment of lesions
>2 cm seems appropriate. Despite this, in a reported series
of 18 CAAs in which nonoperative management was performed in 8 asymptomatic patients, only one subsequent
rupture was noted to occur.117 The other observed CAAs
had no evidence of enlargement or rupture during a
mean 91-month follow-up period.117 In patients with spontaneous dissection of the visceral arteries, aneurysmal
degeneration is rare.120,121 There is no evidence to suggest

tomatic at presentation as opposed to 30% of 20 true aneurysms. Pitton et al92 reported a review of 233 patients
with 253 visceral artery aneurysms. The rate of rupture
at presentation was noted to be signiﬁcantly higher in
visceral pseudoaneurysms than in true aneurysms
(76.3% vs 3.1%). There were 35 ruptures in their series.
There was no signiﬁcant difference in size between
ruptured and nonruptured visceral aneurysms. The authors concluded that visceral pseudoaneurysms are at
increased risk for rupture and that diameter is not necessarily a reliable predictor of rupture.92
In an additional series of 155 patients with visceral
aneurysms, Guo et al122 found no signiﬁcant difference
of the diameters between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients (36.9 vs 33.6 mm). Pseudoaneurysms
were more common in the patients who presented
with rupture. Symptomatic patients had a signiﬁcantly
higher 30-day mortality.122 Celiac aneurysms were
more likely to be in the symptomatic group, whereas
splenic aneurysms were more likely to be in the
asymptomatic group. Most of the ruptures were in
pseudoaneurysms (80%).122 Of a total of eight celiac
lesions, ﬁve were symptomatic. Tetreau et al123
reviewed 112 patients with splanchnic aneurysms,
including 44 splenic aneurysms and 6 celiac aneurysms. Of the celiac aneurysms, one was ruptured at
a diameter of 17 mm.

20S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

In the appropriate clinical scenario, speciﬁcally in patients with pancreatitis or infected pancreatic pseudocysts, coexisting CAAs should be suspected to be
mycotic in nature. Although the literature is sparse in
this subgroup, they should be excised regardless of size,
given the high risk of progression to rupture.

Aneurysmorrhaphy for isolated saccular lesions of the celiac artery has also been reported.87
Endovascular approaches to managing CAAs offer the
potential beneﬁt of low procedural morbidity and mortality and are generally considered to be the preferred
initial approach to most anatomically suitable visceral an-

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of CAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

In patients with ruptured CAA discovered at laparotomy, we suggest ligation if
sufﬁcient collateral circulation to the liver can be documented.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.2

In patients with ruptured CAA diagnosed on preoperative imaging studies who
are stable, we recommend treatment with open surgical or appropriate
endovascular methods based on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical
condition.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

3.3

For the elective treatment of CAA, we suggest using an endovascular intervention
if it is anatomically feasible. However, elective treatment may appropriately
involve open surgical, endovascular, or laparoscopic methods of intervention,
depending on the patient’s anatomy and underlying clinical condition.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.4

To determine the need for revascularization of the celiac artery and its branches
in treating CAA, we suggest evaluating the status of the superior mesenteric
artery, gastroduodenal artery, and other relevant collateral circulation, which
must be carefully documented on preoperative CTA or angiography.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Historically, surgical treatment of CAAs was the only
feasible option for management. Open surgical options
included aneurysmectomy, aneurysmorrhaphy, aortoceliac or aortohepatic bypass, and ligation.98,116 The necessity of celiac or celiac branch revascularization depends
on several factors, including the location of the aneurysm
and the nature of the collateral mesenteric circulation.
Simple ligation of the celiac artery is a viable option in
a meaningful proportion of cases and has been undertaken in as much as 35% of reported surgically treated
cases in the literature.116 Ligation of the celiac artery is
reportedly well tolerated in most cases but may be problematic in patients with underlying hepatic disease. Ligation can be used for emergency treatment of celiac trunk
aneurysms with a relatively low risk of hepatic
ischemia.113 When the celiac artery is ligated, collateral
ﬂow is provided by the superior mesenteric, pancreaticoduodenal, and gastroduodenal arteries. The standard
surgical approach involving revascularization is celiac
aneurysmectomy with aortoceliac bypass grafting, most
commonly using prosthetic materials.117 In one reported
series of nine patients undergoing elective open surgical
repair, revascularization was performed in 89%.117

eurysms considered appropriate for intervention.1 Reported successful endovascular techniques have included
coil or glue embolization, percutaneous or open thrombin
injection, and endovascular stent grafting.3,124-129 One
report of ﬁve cases of endovascular occlusion of CAA
revealed no ischemic sequelae and uniformly good technical results.130 Late coil migration into the stomach with
development of a fatal aortogastric ﬁstula has been reported after coil embolization of a CAA.131 However, there
are signiﬁcantly fewer reports in the literature of CAAs being
treated by endovascular techniques compared with SAAs.
Because CAAs typically involve the proximal portion of the
celiac trunk, absence of a proximal landing zone may limit
endovascular treatment with coils.99,107 This can be potentially achieved with embolization using endovascular
plugs, which can allow a more controlled and precise occlusion of the celiac axis.
Roberts et al132 reported on a series of emergently
treated hemorrhaging celiac or mesenteric artery aneurysms using an initial endovascular approach to all patients in whom the diagnosis was made on
preoperative imaging studies. Ultimately, open surgical
treatment was required in <5% of cases.

4. Screening
Recommendations for screening of patients with CAA

4.1

Recommendation

Strength of
Recommendation

Quality of
Evidence

We suggest screening patients with CAAs for other arterial aneurysms.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

21S

Volume 72, Number 1S

CAAs are associated with other visceral artery aneurysms in 40% of cases and with aortic aneurysms in
20% of cases.133,134 Of patients with a CAA, 18% to
20% will have an aortic aneurysm, and 18% to 38%
will have an additional visceral artery aneurysm.135 Peripheral artery aneurysms are seen in 18% to 67% of
patients.117

sac thrombosis may not protect the aneurysm sac from
pressure transmitted through thrombus, and eventual
sac growth or rupture may still occur.109,110 Reports of
reperfusion and even rupture after “successful” embolization of visceral aneurysms support the notion that a
thrombosed aneurysm may not represent the deﬁnitive
treatment in all cases.111,112 Regular follow-up with duplex

5. Follow-up and surveillance
Recommendations for follow-up and surveillance of CAA patients
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation

Quality of
evidence

5.1

In patients in whom a CAA is being observed with a nonoperative or noninterventional
approach, we suggest annual surveillance with CTA scans to assess for growth in size.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

5.2.

After endovascular intervention for CAAs, we suggest periodic surveillance with
appropriate imaging studies to assess for the possibility of endoleak or other
continued aneurysm perfusion that could lead to a continued risk of aneurysm
growth or rupture.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

In a reported series of 18 CAAs in which nonoperative
management was performed in 8 asymptomatic patients, only one subsequent rupture was noted to
occur.117 The other observed CAAs had no evidence of
enlargement or rupture during a mean 91-month
follow-up period.117 Because rupture of CAAs has been
reported to occur at diameters <20 mm, close radiologic
follow-up of those selected for observation with yearly CT
scans is appropriate.
Continued surveillance, even after secondary technical
success, is imperative as the natural history of visceral artery aneurysms after endovascular treatment remains
unclear. This is especially true of saccular aneurysms
treated with coil or thrombin embolization; unlike formal
exclusion with a covered stent, these aneurysms are not
technically “excluded” from arterial circulation. Indeed,

ultrasound or CT is necessary for patients with visceral
aneurysms treated by embolization because of the risk
of recanalization.111-114
Treatment failures including persistent perfusion,
recanalization, and coil migration have been observed.
The potential for early or late failure, such as growth in
sac size or leak that would require reintervention, requires early and serial imaging follow-up.93,97 Because
artifact due to the radiopaque materials used may
make sensitive CT evaluation difﬁcult, some authors
recommend contrast-enhanced ultrasound or MRI as
follow-up imaging techniques.6,97

GASTRIC AND GASTROEPIPLOIC ARTERY
ANEURYSMS

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

In patients who are thought to have gastric or gastroepiploic artery aneurysms,
we recommend CTA as the diagnostic tool of choice

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

1.2

In patients who are thought to have gastric or gastroepiploic artery aneurysms
and have high radiation exposure risks or renal insufﬁciency, we recommend
non-contrast-enhanced MRA for diagnosis.

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)
C (Low)

Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best suited to children and
women of childbearing potential or those who have contraindications to CTA
or MRA contrast materials (ie, pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or gadolinium
contrast material allergy).
1.3

We recommend the use of catheter-based angiography for all emergent cases
presenting with rupture (Grade 1B) and electively for preoperative planning
(Grade 1C).

22S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms account for
approximately 4% to 5% of all visceral aneurysms,
affecting men more frequently than women (three to
one).87 Etiologic risk factors include primarily arterial
dysplasia with segmental arterial mediolysis and periarterial inﬂammation like pancreatitis and vasculitis;
atherosclerosis, when present, is believed to be a secondary process.87,111,136 Axial imaging, ideally with CTA, remains the diagnostic study of choice as it detects
incidental and asymptomatic aneurysms and guides surgical and endovascular planning.137,138

supports catheter-based embolization of gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms as the new standard of care,
with multiple case reports and small series documenting
successful aneurysm occlusion with coils and thrombin injection.1,2,141-143 Embolization for gastric and gastroepiploic
artery aneurysms, even ruptured, offers >90% technical
success and low morbidity and mortality. Stent grafting
has been described but remains anecdotal.1,144
Axial imaging as recommended will screen for
concomitant nonaortic intra-abdominal arterial aneurysms, which are common.136,139,145

2. Size criteria for invasive intervention
Recommended criteria for invasive intervention in gastric and gastroepiploic aneurysms
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation
2.1

We recommend treatment of all gastric artery and gastroepiploic artery
aneurysms of any size.

Gastric artery aneurysms are 10 times more common
than gastroepiploic artery aneurysms. Although patients
may present with abdominal pain, up to 90% of patients
have historically presented acutely ruptured, with evidence of gastrointestinal bleeding more common than
intraperitoneal rupture (1/3).87,111 Treatment is recommended for all gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms,
regardless of size, in light of this rupture risk at relatively
small aneurysm sizes.139

1 (Strong)

Quality of
evidence
B (Moderate)

We recommend screening for cerebrovascular and coronary artery aneurysm when the diagnosis of segmental
arterial mediolysis is suspected, given the systemic nature of this arterial dysplasia, with one-time screening
CTA or MRA of the head, neck, and chest.136,146
We recommend routine interval surveillance (ie, every
12 months) with axial imaging (ie, CTA or MRA) in cases
of segmental medial arteriolysis in light of reported cases
of rapid arterial transformation.147

3. Treatment options
Recommended criteria for invasive intervention in gastric and gastroepiploic aneurysms
Recommendation
3.1

We recommend endovascular embolization for ﬁrst-line treatment of gastric
artery and gastroepiploic artery aneurysms

Surgical management has historically relied on simple
arterial ligation or excision without reconstruction, whereas
intramural aneurysms required a wedge excision of
involved gastric wall.2,56,87,140 Contemporary literature

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

We recommend postembolization surveillance every
1 to 2 years with axial imaging to assess for vascular
remodeling
and
evidence
of
aneurysm
reperfusion.1,148,149

4. Screening for concomitant aneurysms
Recommendations for screening of gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysm patients
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

4.1

We recommend abdominal axial imaging to screen for concomitant abdominal
aneurysms.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

4.2

We recommend one-time screening CTA (or MRA) of the head, neck, and chest
for those patients with segmental arterial mediolysis.

2 (Weak)

C (Weak)

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

23S

Volume 72, Number 1S

5. Follow-up and surveillance
Recommendations for follow-up and surveillance of gastric and gastroepiploic artery aneurysm patients
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

5.1

We suggest interval surveillance (ie, every 12-24 months) with axial imaging
(ie, CTA or MRA) in cases of segmental medial arteriolysis in light of
reported cases of rapid arterial transformation.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

5.2

We suggest postembolization surveillance every 1 to 2 years with axial
imaging to assess for vascular remodeling and evidence of aneurysm
reperfusion.

2 (Weak)

C (Moderate)

HEPATIC ARTERY ANEURYSM (HAA)
1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of HAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

In patients who are thought to have HAA, we recommend CTA as the diagnostic
tool of choice.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

1.2

In patients with HAA who are considered for intervention, we recommend
mesenteric angiography for preoperative planning.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

HAA is the second most common type of visceral artery
aneurysm reported.56,98,134 The actual incidence of HAA is
unknown; the commonly used incidence ﬁgures are
derived from small case series, autopsy, and anecdotal
evidence. In a large series reported from the Mayo Clinic,
the incidence of HAA was noted to be 0.002% among
the 2,091,965 patients seen at the Mayo Clinic between
1980 and 1986.150 Most HAAs are diagnosed incidentally

on CT performed for unrelated issues and are most
commonly observed during the sixth decade of life
with a 3:2 male predominance.150
Given the numerous collaterals from the gastroduodenal artery and right gastric branches, both open surgical ligation and endovascular embolization of these
aneurysms are reported. To evaluate the collaterals, selective angiography and high-resolution CTA are
recommended.

2. Size criteria for invasive intervention
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of HAA
Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

Given the high propensity of rupture and signiﬁcant antecedent mortality, we
recommend that all hepatic artery pseudoaneurysms, regardless of cause, be
repaired as soon as the diagnosis is made.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

2.2.a

We recommend repair of all symptomatic HAAs regardless of size.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

2.2.b

In asymptomatic patients without signiﬁcant comorbidity, we recommend repair
if true HAA is >2 cm (Grade 1A) or if aneurysm enlarges >0.5 cm/y (Grade 1C). In
patients with signiﬁcant comorbidities, we recommend open repair if HAA is
>5.0 cm (Grade 1B).

1 (Strong)

A (High)

Recommendation
2.1

B (Moderate)
C (Low)
2.3

We recommend repair of HAA in patients with vasculopathy or vasculitis,
regardless of size (Grade 1C). We recommend repair in HAA patients with
positive blood cultures (Grade 1C)

1 (Strong)

C (Low)

24S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

Hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm. False aneurysm of the
hepatic artery accounts for 25%93 to 80%148 of reported
cases and often occurs after iatrogenic injury or penetrating or blunt liver trauma, leading to symptomatic
presentation of these aneurysms. These antecedent
clinical events along with speciﬁc imaging distinguish
false aneurysms from true aneurysms. Imaging ﬁndings,
which include focal arterial disruption in the setting of
otherwise normal arteries and inﬂammatory changes
around an irregular aneurysm sac, are reported.1 The
majority of pseudoaneurysms are symptomatic at presentation, thereby differing from true aneurysms, with
gastrointestinal bleeding or hemobilia.1,148
True HAA. The true natural history of HAA is unknown
because of the rarity of these aneurysms, making any
recommendation for repair of asymptomatic HAA
controversial. In the series published by the Mayo Clinic,
these aneurysms appeared to be relatively benign with
a slow rate of enlargement and relatively uncommon
rate of rupture.150 Retrospective series of ruptured

low rate of comorbidities in the presence of
collaterals.151,152
There is an association between HAA and the patients
with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia, vasculitis, systemic lupus
erythematosus or polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu arteritis, and Wegener granulomatosis.153-158 Congenital
causes of HAA, such as Marfan syndrome, EhlersDanlos syndrome, and Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome,
are reported.159 Patients with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia
and polyarteritis nodosa are at signiﬁcant risk of HAA
rupture, accounting for 50% of ruptured HAA in one
series.150 Bacterial endocarditis was the main cause of
HAA before the adequate treatment of endocarditis
with antibiotics was widespread.153 Aneurysm rupture
is reported with a wide range of 14%150 to 80%,159
but given the retrospective nature of these studies,
the true risk of rupture is unknown. Nonatherosclerotic
aneurysms, however, are at signiﬁcantly higher risk of
rupture as they often present as multiple aneurysms.150,153-159

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of HAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

We recommend an endovascular-ﬁrst approach to all HAAs if it is anatomically
feasible (ie, if this approach maintains arterial circulation to the liver).

1 (Strong)

A (High)

3.2

In patients with extrahepatic aneurysms, we recommend open and endovascular
techniques to maintain liver circulation.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

3.3

In patients with intrahepatic aneurysms, we recommend coil embolization of the
affected artery (Grade 1B). In patients with large intrahepatic HAA, we recommend
resection of the involved lobe of liver to avoid signiﬁcant liver necrosis (Grade 1C).

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

C (Low)

aneurysms suggest that the majority of these lesions
rupture when they are >2 cm in diameter.93 In one series,
when patients were observed nonoperatively for
68 months, only 27% of patients showed enlargement of
the aneurysm without any complication.150 Given these
ﬁndings, Abbas et al150 recommended careful observation for aneurysms <5 cm among high-risk patients and
repair for lesions >2 cm only among low-risk patients
unless these aneurysms enlarge or become symptomatic. Given the signiﬁcant high rate of morbidity and
mortality after HAA rupture (30% mortality rate in one
series150) and overall low rate of morbidity and mortality
after elective HAA repair (0% mortality in the same series150), the current recommendation is for repair of aneurysms >2.0 cm in diameter in low-risk patients and
>5.0 cm among high-risk patients if open repair is
planned. In these patients, endovascular therapy with
stent or coil embolization of the HAA can be contemplated at the same size criteria as in low-risk patients,
provided there is adequate collateralization, given the

Both open and endovascular options exist for HAA
repair. All retrospective case series have shown that the
outcome for visceral artery aneurysms after open or
endovascular repair yielded similar long-term results,
but morbidity is signiﬁcantly worse with open repair
than with the endovascular approach.2,7 With the
improvement of endovascular techniques and relative
low morbidity associated with endovascular repair, endovascular techniques should be preferentially offered in
anatomically suitable candidates.
The majority of these aneurysms are extrahepatic (75%80%).150,153,159 Most are solitary aneurysms, with multiple
HAAs reported in only 8% of these series.150 The ideal
procedure of choice should allow the exclusion of aneurysm while maintaining the liver circulation, which can
be achieved by either resection of the aneurysm with
interposition graft or by placement of a stent graft and
endovascular exclusion of the aneurysm. Given the possibility of central liver necrosis despite adequate collateral
ﬂow by endovascular exclusion,93 in low-risk patients,

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

25S

Volume 72, Number 1S

open surgical revascularization using autologous vein
conduit is recommended if endovascular stent graft
exclusion is not possible.151 Temporary occlusion of the
hepatic artery during reconstruction may guide revascularization or ligation of the HAA.151 More distal extrahepatic HAA branches are often associated with biliary
inﬂammation, making these repairs challenging. Endovascular repair of extrahepatic HAA depends on the collaterals and location of the HAA, similar to open repair.
Given that maintenance of distal organ perfusion is
important, in patients with proper hepatic artery, endovascular repair requires covered stent exclusion of the
aneurysm rather than coil embolization.
The Table represents the summary of treatment recommendations for all extrahepatic aneurysms.
Intrahepatic aneurysms will require resection of the
lobe in which the aneurysm is located. Given the signiﬁcant comorbidities associated with liver resection, endovascular interventions have become the primary
treatment modality for these intrahepatic lesions when
feasible. Complications of embolization include hepatic
ischemia, abscess, cholecystitis, and possible recanalization.151,161,162 Coil embolization is discouraged in patients
with large parenchymal lesions or if large segments of
liver are at risk of ischemia. In these patients, liver lobe
resection should be considered.

As noted, most patients with HAA are diagnosed
with CT performed for other reasons.150 Given the
sensitivity and speciﬁcity of CTA for diagnosis of other
intra-abdominal aneurysms, we recommend CTA to
diagnose other intra-abdominal aneurysms. In thin
patients, abdominal duplex ultrasound is sensitive
and speciﬁc in detecting abdominal or iliac artery aneurysms, but this study needs to be performed on individual arteries and therefore may miss other
noninvestigated vessels.
There is an association between HAA and the patients
with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia, vasculitis, systemic lupus
erythematosus or polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu arteritis,
and Wegener granulomatosis.153-158 This screening study
may detect other pathologic processes that will require
attention. In addition, congenital causes of HAA, such
as Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and
Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome, are reported.159 Axial
CTA or MRA may detect thoracic or intracerebral
aneurysms.
Given that these are slow-growing aneurysms,150
annual follow-up is adequate. CTA with or without
contrast enhancement provides the best modality to
observe these aneurysms. Abdominal duplex ultrasound
can also be used in certain patients to observe these
aneurysms.

4. Screening for concomitant aneurysm and vascular disease
Recommendations for screening of patients with HAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

4.1

We suggest abdominal axial imaging to screen for concomitant intraabdominal aneurysms in patients who did not have CTA at the time of
HAA diagnosis.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

4.2

We suggest one-time screening CTA or MRA of the head, neck, and chest
for those patients with nonatherosclerotic causes of HAA.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Table. Summary of treatment recommendations for extrahepatic aneurysms
Location of extrahepatic HAA
Common hepatic artery

Treatment1,2,7,148,160

Indication
Ruptured

Open surgical ligation

Symptomatic

Endovascular embolization

Asymptomatic (>2 cm)

Resection/reconstruction

Asymptomatic in patients with
ﬁbromuscular dysplasia or
polyarteritis nodosa

Aneurysmorrhaphy

Endovascular
Covered stent
Coil embolization
Proper hepatic

Same as above

Resection with arterial reconstruction

Proximal right or left hepatic
branches

Same as above

Resection with arterial reconstruction

Endovascular stent graft

Endovascular stent graft

26S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

5. Follow-up and surveillance
Recommendations for follow-up and surveillance of HAA patients
Recommendation
5.1

We suggest annual follow-up with CTA or non-contrast-enhanced CT
to observe patients with asymptomatic HAA.

SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY ANEURYSM
(SMAA)

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

endocarditis by nonhemolytic streptococcus.166,169
Atherosclerosis accounts for 25% of cases of SMAA,
whereas inﬂammatory conditions such as pancreatitis

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of SMAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

In patients with SMAA, we recommend CTA as the diagnostic tool of choice.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

1.2

We recommend mesenteric angiography to delineate anatomy in preoperative
planning for SMAA repair.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

Symptomatic SMAA presents with similar symptoms as
other acute abdominal emergencies, such as perforated
viscus, making the diagnosis difﬁcult without an appropriate level of suspicion.163 Although many SMAAs show
a rim of calciﬁcation on plain kidney, ureter, and bladder
radiography164 and duplex ultrasound can be helpful in
diagnosis,165 CTA is the most expeditious and reliable
diagnostic tool.166 Isolated superior mesenteric artery
dissection has been diagnosed more routinely because
of an increase in use of CTA for patients who present
with abdominal pain.167,168

and trauma are the other causes of SMAA.169 Mycotic
SMAAs usually present in younger patients (<50 years
of age), whereas nonmycotic SMAAs are seen in older patients.169 Unlike other visceral aneurysms, 70% to 90% of
SMAAs are symptomatic at the time of presentation,
with abdominal pain the most common symptom, followed by abdominal mass, fever, nausea, and gastrointestinal bleeding.166,170 The natural history of SMAA
appears to be one of expansion and rupture,92,166 with
38% to 50% of patients presenting with ruptured aneurysm92,170; the mortality rate is 30% to 90%.92 At the

2. Size criteria for invasive intervention (true and false aneurysms)
Recommended intervention criteria for SMAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

We recommend repair of all SMAAs and pseudoaneurysms as soon as the
diagnosis is made regardless of size.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

2.2

We suggest careful observation of SMAA because of dissection unless refractory
symptoms develop.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

SMAA represents 3.5% to 8% of visceral artery aneurysm
cases,1,98 and autopsy results suggest that these aneurysms constitute 1 in every 12,000 to 19,000 autopsies.169
Although the etiology of these aneurysms is diverse,
SMAA most commonly results from an infectious cause
or dissection,166 with the superior mesenteric artery the
most common site of infection outside of the aorta.166
The most common reason for mycotic aneurysm of the
superior mesenteric artery is subacute bacterial

same time, the overall mortality from elective repair of
SMAA is <15%,171 and the mortality is even better when
endovascular procedures are used for elective SMAA
repair.1 Given the signiﬁcant incidence of rupture and
the high mortality after repair of ruptured SMAA, once
SMAAs are diagnosed, they should be treated.
Inferior mesenteric artery aneurysms are rare and are
sparsely reported in the literature172-174; they have been
described in patients with collagen vascular disease or

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

27S

Volume 72, Number 1S

vasculitis. Given the rarity of this condition, no speciﬁc
guidelines were generated, and the management of
those patients should be individualized.
Some authors have pointed to the possible association
of dissection and aneurysmal degeneration of the
dissected artery.175 Yun et al168 classiﬁed these isolated
dissections into three groups based on angiographic
ﬁndings. In patients followed up by Dong et al167 or
Yun et al,168 no aneurysmal degenerations were
observed. Initial treatment of these entities is often antiplatelet therapy unless symptoms recur or are refractory
to conservative management.168 The presence of superior mesenteric artery dissection is not an indication for
repair as the majority are treated conservatively without
any need for intervention.167,168

CTA of abdomen and pelvis has signiﬁcant speciﬁcity
and sensitivity for detecting concomitant visceral artery
aneurysm and has proved to be the best modality in
detecting visceral artery aneurysm.166,177
Annual CTA scans are speciﬁc and sensitive in following
up the repair and assess other vascular beds.166,177

JEJUNAL, ILEAL, AND COLIC ARTERY
ANEURYSMS
Aneurysms of the jejunal, ileal, and colic arteries account for <3% of all visceral aneurysms, affecting men
and women equally beyond the sixth decade of
life.87,163 Most of the literature on these aneurysms is
limited to case reviews and small case numbers within

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of SMAA
Recommendation
3.1

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1 (Strong)

B (High)

We recommend an endovascular-ﬁrst approach to all SMAAs if it is
anatomically feasible.

Treatment must be individualized on the basis of anatomy and characteristics of the SMAA. Angiography is critical to delineate superior mesenteric artery anatomy and
collaterals. Both open and endovascular techniques
must exclude the aneurysm and maintain patency of
the vessels. Endovascular procedures are signiﬁcantly
less morbid than open procedures and should be preferentially offered if it is anatomically feasible. Endovascular
interventions include coil embolization and use of
covered stents,176 with good results.
The signiﬁcant issue with endovascular repair is that
SMAA beyond the proximal few centimeters will include
major tributaries that must be preserved. Sacriﬁce of
these vessels during an endovascular approach will
lead to signiﬁcant morbidity. In such cases, when an
endovascular approach leads to signiﬁcant loss of collaterals, strong consideration should be given to open
repair. Open repair options include open surgical procedures such as simple ligation of aneurysm, aneurysmorrhaphy in case of saccular aneurysms, and repair
with an interposition graft. Open resection may require
intestinal resection, particularly in symptomatic patients.
Close observation for occurrence of peritoneal symptoms
is essential after either type of repair.

the context of larger series on visceral aneurysms. We
recommend CTA as the diagnostic modality of choice
for these aneurysms; often in asymptomatic patients,
this modality identiﬁes a visceral branch aneurysm incidentally.99,178,179 MRA may also be considered. Axial imaging of the abdomen will facilitate the assessment of
other abdominal aneurysms, which are common as
referenced before. Arteriography is invaluable for aneurysm identiﬁcation preoperatively and in operative planning, and it is mandatory for patients with polyarteritis
nodosa to assess for additional aneurysms.180
Aneurysms of the jejunal, ileal, and colic arteries are
associated with medial degeneration, infection, inﬂammation, various autoimmune diseases (ie, polyarteritis
nodosa and Behçet disease), and connective tissue disorders. Multiple aneurysms are identiﬁed in approximately
10% of cases.87,111,136,146,181-184 Atherosclerosis, when present, is thought to be a secondary process. We recommend conﬁrmation of the diagnosis of polyarteritis
nodosa in any patient with a history of fever, arthralgia,
weakness, abdominal pain, or pleuritic chest pain that
accompanies mesenteric branch aneurysm.107
Whereas patients may present with abdominal pain,
most jejunal and ileal artery aneurysms are

4. Screening for concomitant aneurysm
Recommendations for screening of patients with SMAA
Recommendation
4.1

We suggest abdominal axial imaging to screen for concomitant intraabdominal aneurysms in patients who did not have CTA at the time of
diagnosis.

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

28S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

5. Follow-up and surveillance
Recommendations for follow-up and surveillance of SMAA patients
Recommendation
5.1

We suggest annual CTA to observe postsurgical patients.

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysms
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

In patients who are thought to have jejunal artery, ileal artery, and colic artery
aneurysms, we recommend CTA as the diagnostic tool of choice.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

1.2

In patients with high radiation exposure risks or renal insufﬁciency, we
recommend non-contrast-enhanced MRA for diagnosis.

1 (Strong)

C (Moderate)

Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best suited to children and
women of childbearing potential or those who have contraindications to CTA
or MRA contrast materials (ie, pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or gadolinium
contrast material allergy).
1.3

We recommend the use of catheter-based angiography for all emergent cases
presenting with rupture (Grade 1B) and electively for preoperative planning
(Grade 1C).

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

1.4

We suggest screening all patients with jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysms
for vasculitis with routine inﬂammatory markers.

2 (Weak)

C (Moderate)

C (Moderate)

2. Size criteria for invasive intervention (true aneurysms vs pseudoaneurysms)
Recommended intervention criteria for jejunal, ileal and colic artery aneurysms
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2.1

We recommend elective intervention for jejunal and ileal artery aneurysms
>2 cm in maximal diameter and for all colic artery aneurysms, any size.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

2.2

We recommend emergent intervention for any jejunal, ileal, or colic artery
aneurysm, any size, resulting in patient symptoms or rupture and all
mesenteric branch vessel pseudoaneurysms.

1 (Strong)

A (High)

asymptomatic. Colic artery aneurysms, however, cause
symptoms, primarily abdominal pain, in nearly 90% of
patients.166 Rupture may complicate up to 30% of jejunal
and ileal artery aneurysms and up to 70% of colic artery
aneurysms, resulting in gastrointestinal bleeding and
mortality rates that approach 20% to 50%.140,166 Treatment is recommended for all jejunal and ileal artery aneurysms >2 cm and for all colic branch aneurysms,
regardless of size.166,184
We recommend emergent intervention for any jejunal,
ileal, or colic artery aneurysm, any size, resulting in patient symptoms or rupture and all mesenteric branch
vessel pseudoaneurysms (Grade 1A).
Interpretation of the existing data on mesenteric
branch aneurysms is limited by small numbers and
anecdotal reports. In addition, most of the existing
studies do not delineate true aneurysms from false

aneurysms, and the visceral bed is often excluded from
analysis.
Surgical management has historically relied on simple
arterial ligation or aneurysm excision without
reconstruction.56,87,140,169,184,185 This remains a conservative option for rupture, in which case exploratory laparotomy facilitates the evacuation of hematoma,
deﬁnitive aneurysm treatment, and bowel assessment
for viability. Enterectomy or colectomy may be
required as intramural aneurysms and those associated
with bowel necrosis require resection of the involved
bowel at the time of aneurysm exclusion. Robust collateralization often permits simple aneurysm ligation
or resection without reconstruction. However, special
consideration is required in patients with a previous
colectomy as the collateral network might be
incomplete.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

29S

Volume 72, Number 1S

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysms
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

We suggest open surgical ligation or aneurysm excision for cases of jejunal, ileal, and
colic artery aneurysms when laparotomy is being considered for hematoma
evacuation or bowel assessment for viability.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.2

We suggest endovascular embolization for cases of jejunal, ileal, and colic artery
aneurysm.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.3

We suggest medical treatment of nonruptured, asymptomatic ileal, jejunal, and colic
artery aneurysms associated with polyarteritis nodosa.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Transcatheter embolization with coils, Onyx, and glue (nbutyl cyanoacrylate) has been increasingly used, especially for cases of acute rupture and gastrointestinal
bleeding.1,7,111,186-188 Endovascular interventions offer precise localization of the aneurysm, assessment of collateral
ﬂow, lower risk for patients who are not good operative
candidates, easier approach to aneurysms for which surgical exposure would be difﬁcult, and decreased length of
stay.1,111 These beneﬁts are balanced with a risk of intestinal
necrosis, perforation, and late stricture requiring reoperation in addition to primary technical failures and failed hemostasis in the setting of rupture.189-193
Regression of aneurysms resulting from polyarteritis
nodosa after cytotoxic or immunosuppressive treatment
is well documented.107 As such, medical therapy should
be considered ﬁrst line for these patients with nonruptured, asymptomatic aneurysms, with repeated arteriography staged at 3 to 4 months to ascertain regression.

arterial mediolysis is suspected, given the systemic nature of this arterial dysplasia, with one-time screening
CTA or MRA of the head, neck, and chest.146
We recommend routine interval surveillance (ie, every
12 months) with axial imaging (ie, CTA or MRA) in cases
of segmental medial arteriolysis in light of reported cases
of rapid arterial transformation.147
We recommend postembolization surveillance every 1
to 2 years with axial imaging to assess for vascular
remodeling.1

PANCREATICODUODENAL ARTERY ANEURYSM
(PDAA) AND GASTRODUODENAL ARTERY
ANEURYSM (GDAA)
CTA has become the most common diagnostic tool for
PDAA and GDAA, given its accuracy, wide availability,
and promptness.194,195 Enhancement patterns vary ac-

4. Screening for concomitant aneurysms
Recommendations for screening of patients with jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysms
Strength of
recommendation

Recommendation

Quality of
evidence

4.1

We suggest abdominal axial imaging to screen for concomitant abdominal aneurysms.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

4.2

We suggest one-time screening CTA (or MRA) of the head, neck, and chest for those
patients with segmental arterial mediolysis.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Axial imaging as recommended will screen for
concomitant nonaortic intra-abdominal arterial aneurysms, which are common.
We recommend screening for cerebrovascular and coronary artery aneurysm when the diagnosis of segmental

cording to the amount of thrombus within the aneurysm. Multiplanar reformations and three-dimensional
reconstructions can aid in determining the relationship
of the surrounding vasculature and parent vessels. In
cases of ruptured GDAA and PDAA, CTA is the diagnostic

5. Follow-up and surveillance
Recommendations for follow-up and surveillance of jejunal, ileal, and colic artery aneurysm patients
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

5.1

We suggest interval surveillance (ie, every 12-24 months) with axial imaging (ie, CTA
or MRA) for cases of segmental medial arteriolysis in light of reported cases of rapid
arterial transformation and to monitor regression in cases of polyarteritis nodosa.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

5.2

We suggest postembolization surveillance every 1 to 2 years with axial imaging
to assess for vascular remodeling and evidence of aneurysm reperfusion.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

30S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

1. Diagnosis and evaluation
Recommendations for diagnosis and evaluation of PDAA and GDAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1.1

In patients who are thought to have GDAA and PDAA, we recommend CTA as the
diagnostic tool of choice.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

1.2

In patients in whom celiac stenosis is suspected, we suggest further workup with
duplex ultrasound to elucidate whether the stenosis is hemodynamically signiﬁcant.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

1.3

In patients with high radiation exposure risks or renal insufﬁciency, we suggest noncontrast-enhanced MRA for diagnosis.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Technical remark: Non-contrast-enhanced MRA is best suited to children and women
of childbearing potential or those who have contraindications to CTA or MRA contrast
materials (ie, pregnancy, renal insufﬁciency, or gadolinium contrast material allergy).

tool of choice because it can provide arterial-phase,
venous-phase, and non-contrast-enhanced images in a
rapid manner.137 Furthermore, ﬁndings of diaphragmatic
crura hypertrophy, a focal narrowing of the proximal celiac axis with a hooked appearance, and retrograde ﬁlling
of the dorsal pancreatic and pancreaticoduodenal arteries on three-dimensional CTA are suggestive of median arcuate ligament syndrome and may direct the
surgeon to consider a median arcuate ligament release
in addition to treatment of the GDAA or PDAA.196

Although non-contrast-enhanced MRA sequences can
be more time-consuming than contrast-enhanced
MRA, non-contrast-enhanced MRA has almost the
same sensitivity for detecting vascular abnormalities
and a high negative predictive value. Non-contrastenhanced MRA (like contrast-enhanced MRA) can be superior and complementary to ultrasound in evaluating
most parts of the body because it is not limited by acoustic windows, particularly in the thoracoabdominal vasculature.202-204

2. Size criteria for invasive intervention
Recommended intervention criteria for PDAA and GDAA
Recommendation
2.1

In patients with noncomplicated GDAA and PDAA of acceptable operative risk, we
recommend treatment no matter the size of the aneurysm because of the risk of
rupture.

Non-contrast-enhanced CT scans may show only a soft
tissue mass in the aneurysm bed that can be confused
with
adenopathy
or
pancreatic
or
duodenal
neoplasm.160,194
Contrast-enhanced MRA has been shown to correlate
well with CTA,86 but it should not be used in emergent
cases as acquisition times are longer than for CTA.197
Postprocessing maximum intensity projection images
are similar to those of conventional angiography,
providing a roadmap for therapeutic interventions.179
Finally, duplex ultrasound may delineate larger aneurysms, but information on parent artery anatomy is insufﬁcient.59 Accuracy can be decreased because of the
patient’s body habitus, calciﬁed vessel walls, and limited
spatial resolution.198,199
Duplex ultrasound is one of the most common diagnostic techniques used to evaluate the celiac axis for median arcuate ligament syndrome.200 It can provide realtime inspiratory and expiratory data, helping elucidate
the cause of the GDAA or PDAA and its treatment.201

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

Previous studies have made the distinction in size
threshold for repair of visceral artery aneurysms on the
basis of whether the aneurysm is a true aneurysm or a
pseudoaneurysm.205 This is based on the fact that pseudoaneurysms are at higher risk of rupture and should
therefore be repaired regardless of size. However, it is
known that many of the PDAAs and GDAAs that have
ruptured can be small and <10 mm.206 In fact, a singlecenter review of all visceral aneurysms found that PDAAs
were strongly associated with rupture (P < .0002).207
Thus, GDAAs and PDAAs should be repaired regardless
of size and regardless of true vs false aneurysm in patients who have acceptable operative or interventional
risk.117,208-213
A Markov model decision analysis was performed to
assess the effectiveness of preventive treatment of patients with PDAA based on risk.214 The authors argued
that whereas 60% of PDAAs present ruptured regardless
of size, the natural history of unruptured aneurysms
cannot be determined by that of ruptured aneurysms.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

31S

Volume 72, Number 1S

Assuming a mortality rate of 21% after rupture, they
found that preventive treatment was dominated by no
treatment if mortality rates of preventive treatment
were >1.4%, >2.6%, >3.8%, and >4.8% at annual rupture
rates of 1%, 2%, 3%, and 4%, respectively, for an 80-yearold patient. Preventive treatment was dominated by no
treatment if mortality rates of preventive treatment
were >3.3%, >5.9%, >8.0%, and >9.7% at annual rupture
rates of 1%, 2%, 3%, and 4%, respectively, for a 50-year-old
patient.
Predictive factors of rupture, whether size, demographics, or comorbid disease, are few. A review of the
English literature found that 32% of ruptured patients
were female and 61% were male.215 In one single-center
study, rupture was associated with male sex (P ¼ .02)
and a trend toward rupture in patients with celiac stenosis (P ¼ .10).216 Thus, male patients should be considered
for elective repair even in the presence of moderate
operative risk.

Long-term success may be related to angiographic
ﬁndings seen on completion imaging. The RaymondRoy Occlusion Classiﬁcation is a system for evaluating
aneurysm occlusion after endovascular coiling with
three classes based on completion imaging at the
end of the procedure.218 Class I is deﬁned as complete
obliteration; class II, a residual neck; and class III, a residual aneurysm. Class III can be further subdivided
into IIIa, residual contrast within coil interstices, and
IIIb, residual aneurysm with contrast material along
the sidewall of the aneurysm. Class IIIa aneurysms
tend to have a higher rate of subsequent thrombosis,
whereas IIIb aneurysms tend to have a higher rate of
re-treatment.219
Whereas survival is unrelated to operative technique in
repair of intact aneurysms, endovascular repair of
ruptured aneurysms is associated with both improved
overall survival and aneurysm-related survival compared
with open surgery.4,209

3. Treatment options
Recommendations for treatment of PDAA and GDAA
Recommendation

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

3.1

In patients with intact and ruptured aneurysms, we recommend coil embolization as
the treatment of choice.

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

3.2

In patients in whom coil embolization is not feasible, we suggest covered stenting or
stent-assisted coil embolization as a treatment option in select cases of GDAA and
PDAA.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.3

In patients with appropriate anatomy, we suggest transcatheter embolization with
liquid embolic agents as a treatment option for both GDAA and PDAA.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.4

In patients with suitable anatomy, we suggest ﬂow-diverting, multilayered stents as a
treatment option for GDAA and PDAA, although these have not been adequately
studied to be recommended as a primary treatment modality.

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

3.5

In patients with nonruptured aneurysms, we suggest open surgical reconstruction if
needed to preserve ﬂow.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

3.6

In patients with concomitant stenosis or occlusion, we suggest celiac artery
reconstruction.

2 (Weak)

B (Moderate)

Coil embolization of GDAA and PDAA has recently
become the treatment of choice whether the aneurysm
is ruptured or not.4,190,195,209,211-213,216 Different catheter
conﬁgurations can be employed, but a triaxial system consisting of a sheath-guiding catheter, a 4F or 5F catheter,
and a microcatheter provides stable support through
tortuous vessels or in treating distal arterial beds as well
as rapid exchange of the microcatheter if necessary.1
Although it is not imperative, exclusion of all inﬂow and
outﬂow vessels is necessary to reduce the risk of recurrent
sac pressurization from antegrade or retrograde perfusion.6 End-organ perfusion is typically maintained by the
dense collateral network of these vessels, but isolated
coil packing of the aneurysm sac alone can be sufﬁcient
if the inﬂow vessel is vital for organ perfusion.217 Immediate
technical success rates are >90%.

Covered stenting may be performed when the artery
proximal and distal to the aneurysm is of suitable diameter with a low degree of tortuosity.212 Successful covered
stenting with a Viabahn stent (W. L. Gore & Associates,
Flagstaff, Ariz)220 as well as with an Advanta V12 stent
graft (Atrium Medical, Hudson, NH)221 has been reported.
Advantages of this technique include preservation of
ﬂow through the artery; however, it may be limited by
the discrepancy in arterial seal zone diameters as well
as by the ability to pass the stent through tortuous
anatomy.216
The liquid embolic agent n-butyl 2-cyanoacrylate
(NBCA) has been used to treat cases of both ruptured
and unruptured GDAA and PDAA.222 A theoretical
advantage of embolization with liquid embolic agents
is the ability to embolize small, tortuous vessels that

32S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

July Supplement 2020

may be too small to selectively catheterize for coil embolization.6,132,213,223 The NBCA must be premixed with
iodized oil to control its polymerization and to make it
radiopaque.224 A 1:3 ratio, or 25% NBCA, increases the
polymerization time to 4 seconds, although distal embolization may still occur.225
Ethylene vinyl alcohol (Onyx) has also been used successfully to treat PDAA.65 Onyx is dissolved in dimethyl
sulfoxide and is suspended in radiopaque micronized
tantalum powder; it does not need to be mixed. When
concomitant balloon occlusion of the parent vessel is
used, injection of the Onyx directly into the aneurysm
through a microcatheter preserves the inﬂow and
outﬂow vessels. When balloon occlusion is not used,
the inﬂow and outﬂow vessels can be obliterated as well.
Flow-diverting stents are a burgeoning technology that
was ﬁrst introduced for the treatment of intracranial aneurysms. Flow-diverting stents are placed in the parent

This is thought to result in retrograde ﬂow through the
pancreaticoduodenal arteries, leading to turbulent ﬂow,
which ultimately causes aneurysmal dilation. Interestingly, celiac stenosis is more common in PDAA than in
GDAA.229 Whereas coil embolization can lead to endorgan hepatic ischemia and liver failure, the overall risk
is likely to be low.208 However, a low threshold for celiac
revascularization should be considered in patients with
symptoms of mesenteric insufﬁciency at baseline or
when there is a risk of compromising end-organ perfusion with aneurysm treatment, and postoperative liver
function test results should be monitored closely.4,212 In
cases of median arcuate ligament syndrome, celiac
revascularization can be achieved with division of the
median arcuate ligament and celiac plexus, aortoceliac
bypass, or renohepatic bypass.230 In cases not associated
with median arcuate ligament compression, primary
stenting of a celiac stenosis is an option.216,231

4. De novo screening and screening for concomitant aneurysms
Recommendations for screening of patients with PDAA and GDAA
Recommendation
4.1

In patients with median arcuate ligament syndrome, we suggest screening for GDAA or
PDAA with CTA or duplex ultrasound.

artery in an effort to improve laminar ﬂow within the
parent artery and to reduce blood ﬂow within the aneurysm sac to the point of thrombosis.226 Furthermore,
these stents preserve ﬂow through collateral side
branches. The stents require an overall porosity of 50%
to 70%, or 30% to 50% metallic coverage. Stents such
as the Pipeline Embolization Device (ev3, Plymouth,
Minn), the SILK Arterial Reconstruction Device (Balt
Extrusion, Montmorency, France), and the Cardiatis
multilayer stent are available; however, only the Cardiatis
multilayer stent has been used to treat a GDAA. At
6 months, the Cardiatis stent was patent with complete
thrombosis of the aneurysm sac.227 Patients are treated
with dual antiplatelet regimens postoperatively. In patients with suitable anatomy, ﬂow-diverting, multilayered
stents may become a treatment option for GDAA and
PDAA, although these have not been adequately studied
to be recommended as a primary treatment modality at
this point.
Open surgical treatment of GDAA and PDAA is technically feasible with a perioperative morbidity and mortality for nonruptured aneurysms of approximately 9.4%
and 1.3%, respectively.59 Techniques include ligation
and excision with end-to-end anastomosis.59,211,212,223
However, mortality for ruptured GDAA and PDAA undergoing open repair approaches 30%.4,209
Celiac axis stenosis or occlusion is frequently associated
with aneurysms of the pancreaticoduodenal arcade.228

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

2 (Weak)

C (Low)

Few data exist regarding screening for GDAA and
PDAA. However, based on the fact that celiac stenosis
is associated with 50% to 60% of these aneurysms, it
would seem prudent to examine the gastroduodenal
artery and pancreaticoduodenal arcade by either
duplex ultrasound or CTA once a celiac stenosis is
diagnosed.232 Pulsed Doppler ultrasound can distinguish between aneurysms and other masses of the
pancreas, although it may be limited by patient factors
such as bowel gas.233
There is no association of GDAA or PDAA with aneurysms outside the visceral circulation. Therefore,
screening for concomitant aneurysms outside the
abdomen is of little value.
It is well known that endovascular treatment of GDAA
and PDAA may be associated with the long-term
complication of aneurysm reperfusion.6,209 Although no
studies have evaluated the recurrence rates of GDAA or
PDAA after endovascular coiling, recanalization after
endovascular treatment of visceral artery aneurysms occurs in 9% to 15% of patients.111,113,190,234 This may be
due to insufﬁcient packing, long-term coil compaction,
or delayed coil migration.235,236 Thus, follow-up imaging
is crucial.59,235
A radiopaque agent is necessary for embolization; however, this creates a signiﬁcant radioartifact on follow-up
imaging.1,56 Whereas CTA is the most commonly used
follow-up study modality, certain reports have found

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

33S

Volume 72, Number 1S

5. Follow-up and surveillance
Recommendations for follow-up and surveillance of PDAA and GDAA patients
Recommendation
5.1

In patients status post treatment of GDAA and PDAA, we recommend follow-up
imaging after endovascular treatment of GDAA and PDAA to rule out persistent ﬂow
through the aneurysm sac.

that it cannot accurately determine reperfusion of an
aneurysm sac because of the degree of radioartifact.237
More recently, three-dimensional contrast-enhanced
MRA has been shown to be a safe and effective way to
provide postoperative follow-up.238 This technique has
a 91% accuracy in deﬁning hemodynamic status and
complications with little metallic artifact.239
Concerns about repeated radiation exposure have
prompted some to recommend duplex ultrasound as
an alternative surveillance technique.1,6,56,209 Contrastenhanced ultrasound is a less expensive and noninvasive
technique that has been shown to clearly identify ﬂow in
and around a metallic coil pack.240 Thus, contrastenhanced ultrasound may be optimal for long-term
surveillance.
Finally, digital subtraction angiography is the “gold
standard” for deﬁning reperfusion of the aneurysm sac.
However, this is typically reserved for cases in which reintervention of an enlarging aneurysm sac is
necessary.1,56,72
The frequency of surveillance imaging is not well established, but it is unlikely that aneurysm reperfusion will
occur if it is completely obliterated and thrombosed on
the ﬁrst postprocedural imaging study. As such, the value
of long-term surveillance after embolization is not justiﬁed. In addition, given the lack of clear association of
GDAA and PDAA with metachronous visceral aneurysms,
surveillance for the development of new visceral aneurysms is also not well established.

REFERENCES
1. Tulsyan N, Kashyap VS, Greenberg RK, Sarac TP, Clair DG,
Pierce G, et al. The endovascular management of visceral
artery aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms. J Vasc Surg
2007;45:276-83; discussion: 283.
2. Cochennec F, Riga CV, Allaire E, Cheshire NJ, Hamady M,
Jenkins MP, et al. Contemporary management of
splanchnic and renal artery aneurysms: results of endovascular compared with open surgery from two European
vascular centers. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2011;42:340-6.
3. Wagner WH, Allins AD, Treiman RL, Cohen JL, Foran RF,
Levin PM, et al. Ruptured visceral artery aneurysms. Ann
Vasc Surg 1997;11:342-7.
4. Suzuki K, Kashimura H, Sato M, Hassan M, Yokota H,
Nakahara A, et al. Pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms
associated with celiac axis stenosis due to compression by
median arcuate ligament and celiac plexus. J Gastroenterol
1998;33:434-8.

Strength of
recommendation

Quality of
evidence

1 (Strong)

B (Moderate)

5. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for
Vascular Surgery including the experience with the GRADE
framework. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
6. Lagana D, Carraﬁello G, Mangini M, Dionigi G, Caronno R,
Castelli P, et al. Multimodal approach to endovascular
treatment of visceral artery aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms. Eur J Radiol 2006;59:104-11.
7. Sachdev U, Baril DT, Ellozy SH, Lookstein RA, Silverberg D,
Jacobs TS, et al. Management of aneurysms involving
branches of the celiac and superior mesenteric arteries: a
comparison of surgical and endovascular therapy. J Vasc
Surg 2006;44:718-24.
8. Barrionuevo P, Malas MB, Nejim B, Haddad A, Morrow A,
Ponce O, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of the
management of visceral artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg
2019;70:1694-9.
9. Stanley JC, Rhodes EL, Gewertz BL, Chang CY, Walter JF,
Fry WJ. Renal artery aneurysms. Signiﬁcance of macroaneurysms exclusive of dissections and ﬁbrodysplastic
mural dilations. Arch Surg 1975;110:1327-33.
10. Leadbetter WF, Burkland CF. Hypertension in unilateral
renal disease. J Urol 1938;39:611-26.
11. Plouin PF, Perdu J, La Batide-Alanore A, Boutouyrie P,
Gimenez-Roqueplo AP, Jeunemaitre X. Fibromuscular
dysplasia. Orphanet J Rare Dis 2007;2:28.
12. Cragg AH, Smith TP, Thompson BH, Maroney TP,
Stanson AW, Shaw GT, et al. Incidental ﬁbromuscular
dysplasia in potential renal donorsdlong-term clinical
follow-up. Radiology 1989;172:145-7.
13. Andreoni KA, Weeks SM, Gerber DA, Fair JH, Mauro MA,
McCoy L, et al. Incidence of donor renal ﬁbromuscular
dysplasia: does it justify routine angiography? Transplantation 2002;73:1112-6.
14. Klausner JQ, Lawrence PF, Harlander-Locke MP,
Coleman DM, Stanley JC, Fujimura N, et al. The contemporary management of renal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg
2015;61:978-84.
15. Zhang LJ, Yang GF, Qi J, Shen W. Renal artery aneurysm:
diagnosis and surveillance with multidetector-row
computed tomography. Acta Radiol 2007;48:274-9.
16. Smith PA, Fishman EK. Three-dimensional CT angiography:
renal applications. Semin Ultrasound CT MR 1998;19:413-24.
17. Johnson PT, Fishman EK. Computed tomography angiography of the renal and mesenteric vasculature: concepts
and applications. Semin Roentgenol 2011;46:115-24.
18. Angeretti MG, Lumia D, Cani A, Barresi M, Cardim LN,
Piacentino F, et al. Non-enhanced MR angiography of renal
arteries: comparison with contrast-enhanced MR angiography. Acta Radiol 2013;54:749-56.
19. Mohrs OK, Petersen SE, Schulze T, Zieschang M, Kux H,
Schmitt P, et al. High-resolution 3D unenhanced ECGgated respiratory-navigated MR angiography of the renal
arteries: comparison with contrast-enhanced MR angiography. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2010;195:1423-8.

34S

Chaer et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
July Supplement 2020

20. Albert TS, Akahane M, Parienty I, Yellin N, Catala V,
Alomar X, et al. An international multicenter comparison of
time-SLIP unenhanced MR angiography and contrastenhanced CT angiography for assessing renal artery stenosis: the renal artery contrast-free trial. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2015;204:182-8.
21. Granata A, Floccari F, Clementi A, Di Lullo L, Fiorini F.
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound reveals renal artery aneurysm after detection of ‘parapelvic lithiasis. Clin Exp Nephrol 2014;18:174-5.
22. Seo JM, Park KB, Kim KH, Jeon P, Shin SW, Park HS, et al.
Clinical and multidetector CT follow-up results of renal artery aneurysms treated by detachable coil embolization
using 3D rotational angiography. Acta Radiol 2011;52:854-9.
23. Endo H, Shimizu T, Kodama Y, Miyasaka K. Usefulness of 3dimensional reconstructed images of renal arteries using
rotational digital subtraction angiography. J Urol 2002;167:
2046-8.
24. Kaufman JAK. Renal arteries. In: Kaufman JA, Lee MJ, editors. Vascular and interventional radiology. The requisites.
Philadelphia: Mosby; 2004. p. 323-49.
25. Liu PS, Platt JF. CT angiography of the renal circulation.
Radiol Clin North Am 2010;48:347-65. viii-ix.
26. Hirsch AT, Haskal ZJ, Hertzer NR, Bakal CW, Creager MA,
Halperin JL, et al. ACC/AHA 2005 Practice Guidelines for the
management of patients with peripheral arterial disease
(lower extremity, renal, mesenteric, and abdominal aortic):
Executive summaryda collaborative report from the
American Association for Vascular Surgery/Society for
Vascular Surgery, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography
and Interventions, Society for Vascular Medicine and
Biology, Society of Interventional Radiology, and the ACC/
AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee
to Develop Guidelines for the Management of Patients
With Peripheral Arterial Disease). Circulation 2006;113:
1474-547.
27. Coleman DM, Stanley JC. Renal artery aneurysms. J Vasc
Surg 2015;62:779-85.
28. Cerny JC, Chang CY, Fry WJ. Renal artery aneurysms. Arch
Surg 1968;96:653-63.
29. Ippolito JJ, Leveen HH. Treatment of renal artery aneurysms. J Urol 1960;83:10-6.
30. Henriksson C, Lukes P, Nilson AE, Pettersson S. Angiographically discovered, non-operated renal artery aneurysms. Scand J Urol Nephrol 1984;18:59-62.
31. Robinson WP 3rd, Bafford R, Belkin M, Menard MT. Favorable outcomes with in situ techniques for surgical repair of
complex renal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:684-91.
32. Pfeiffer H, Weiss FU, Karger B, Aghdassi A, Lerch MM,
Brinkmann B. Fatal cerebro-renal oxalosis after appendectomy. Int J Legal Med 2004;118:98-100.
33. Hislop SJ, Patel SA, Abt PL, Singh MJ, Illig KA. Therapy of
renal artery aneurysms in New York State: outcomes of
patients undergoing open and endovascular repair. Ann
Vasc Surg 2009;23:194-200.
34. Tsilimparis N, Reeves JG, Dayama A, Perez SD, Debus ES,
Ricotta JJ 2nd. Endovascular vs open repair of renal artery
aneurysms: outcomes of repair and long-term renal function. J Am Coll Surg 2013;217:263-9.
35. Tham G, Ekelund L, Herrlin K, Lindstedt EL, Olin T,
Bergentz SE. Renal artery aneurysms. Natural history and
prognosis. Ann Surg 1983;197:348-52.
36. Martin RS 3rd, Meacham PW, Ditesheim JA, Mulherin JL Jr,
Edwards WH. Renal artery aneurysm: selective treatment
for hypertension and prevention of rupture. J Vasc Surg
1989;9:26-34.

37. Henke PK, Cardneau JD, Welling TH 3rd, Upchurch GR Jr,
Wakeﬁeld TW, Jacobs LA, et al. Renal artery aneurysms: a
35-year clinical experience with 252 aneurysms in 168 patients. Ann Surg 2001;234:454-62; discussion: 462-3.
38. Chandra A, O’Connell JB, Quinones-Baldrich WJ,
Lawrence PF, Moore WS, Gelabert HA, et al. Aneurysmectomy with arterial reconstruction of renal artery aneurysms in the endovascular era: a safe, effective treatment
for both aneurysm and associated hypertension. Ann Vasc
Surg 2010;24:503-10.
39. Klausner JQ, Harlander-Locke MP, Plotnik AN, Lehrman E,
DeRubertis BG, Lawrence PF. Current treatment of renal
artery aneurysms may be too aggressive. J Vasc Surg
2014;59:1356-61.
40. Wayne EJ, Edwards MS, Stafford JM, Hansen KJ,
Corriere MA. Anatomic characteristics and natural history of
renal artery aneurysms during longitudinal imaging surveillance. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:448-52.
41. Cohen JR, Shamash FS. Ruptured renal artery aneurysms
during pregnancy. J Vasc Surg 1987;6:51-9.
42. Wexler BC. Spontaneous arteriosclerosis of the mesenteric,
renal, and peripheral arteries of repeatedly bred rats. Circ
Res 1964;15:485-96.
43. Wexler BC. Spontaneous arteriosclerosis in repeatedly bred
male and female rats. J Atheroscler Res 1964;4:57-80.
44. Hellmund A, Meyer C, Fingerhut D, Muller SC, Merz WM,
Gembruch U. Rupture of renal artery aneurysm during late
pregnancy: clinical features and diagnosis. Arch Gynecol
Obstet 2016;293:505-8.
45. Hwang PF, Rice DC, Patel SV, Mukherjee D. Successful
management of renal artery aneurysm rupture after cesarean section. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:519-21.
46. McCarron JP Jr, Marshall VF, Whitsell JC 2nd. Indications for
surgery on renal artery aneurysms. J Urol 1975;114:177-80.
47. Soliman KB, Shawky Y, Abbas MM, Ammary M, Shaaban A.
Ruptured renal artery aneurysm during pregnancy, a clinical dilemma. BMC Urol 2006;6:22.
48. Graff J, Schalte G, Jovanovic V. [Rupture of a renal artery
aneurysm during delivery]. Aktuelle Urol 2003;34:350-3.
49. English WP, Pearce JD, Craven TE, Wilson DB, Edwards MS,
Ayerdi J, et al. Surgical management of renal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:53-60.
50. Pfeiffer T, Reiher L, Grabitz K, Grunhage B, Hafele S,
Voiculescu A, et al. Reconstruction for renal artery aneurysm: operative techniques and long-term results. J Vasc
Surg 2003;37:293-300.
51. Hupp T, Allenberg JR, Post K, Roeren T, Meier M, Clorius JH.
Renal artery aneurysm: surgical indications and results. Eur
J Vasc Surg 1992;6:477-86.
52. Dzsinich C, Gloviczki P, McKusick MA, Pairolero PC,
Bower TC, Hallett JW Jr, et al. Surgical management of
renal artery aneurysm. Cardiovasc Surg 1993;1:243-7.
53. Heﬂin LA, Street CB, Papavassiliou DV, Kem DC, Wu DH,
O’Rear EA. Transient stenotic-like occlusions as a possible
mechanism for renovascular hypertension due to aneurysm. J Am Soc Hypertens 2009;3:192-200.
54. Down LA, Papavassiliou DV, O’Rear EA. Arterial deformation
with renal artery aneurysm as a basis for secondary hypertension. Biorheology 2013;50:17-31.
55. Bastounis E, Pikoulis E, Georgopoulos S, Alexiou D,
Leppaniemi A, Boulafendis D. Surgery for renal artery aneurysms: a combined series of two large centers. Eur Urol
1998;33:22-7.
56. Pulli R, Dorigo W, Troisi N, Pratesi G, Innocenti AA, Pratesi C.
Surgical treatment of visceral artery aneurysms: a 25-year
experience. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:334-42.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

35S

Volume 72, Number 1S
57. Morita K, Seki T, Iwami D, Sasaki H, Fukuzawa N,
Nonomura K. Long-term outcome of single institutional
experience with conservative and surgical management for
renal artery aneurysm. Transplant Proc 2012;44:1795-9.
58. Lumsden AB, Salam TA, Walton KG. Renal artery aneurysm:
a report of 28 cases. Cardiovasc Surg 1996;4:185-9.
59. Marone EM, Mascia D, Kahlberg A, Brioschi C, Tshomba Y,
Chiesa R. Is open repair still the gold standard in visceral
artery aneurysm management? Ann Vasc Surg 2011;25:
936-46.
60. Jibiki M, Inoue Y, Kudo T, Toyofuku T. Surgical procedures
for renal artery aneurysms. Ann Vasc Dis 2012;5:157-60.
61. Murray SP, Kent C, Salvatierra O, Stoney RJ. Complex
branch renovascular disease: management options and
late results. J Vasc Surg 1994;20:338-45; discussion: 346.
62. Gallagher KA, Phelan MW, Stern T, Bartlett ST. Repair of
complex renal artery aneurysms by laparoscopic nephrectomy with ex vivo repair and autotransplantation. J Vasc
Surg 2008;48:1408-13.
63. Abath C, Andrade G, Cavalcanti D, Brito N, Marques R.
Complex renal artery aneurysms: liquids or coils? Tech Vasc
Interv Radiol 2007;10:299-307.
64. Dib M, Sedat J, Raffaelli C, Petit I, Robertson WG, Jaeger P.
Endovascular treatment of a wide-neck renal artery bifurcation aneurysm. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2003;14:1461-4.
65. Bratby MJ, Lehmann ED, Bottomley J, Kessel DO,
Nicholson AA, McPherson SJ, et al. Endovascular embolization of visceral artery aneurysms with ethylene-vinyl
alcohol (Onyx): a case series. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol
2006;29:1125-8.
66. Meyer C, Verrel F, Weyer G, Wilhelm K. Endovascular management of complex renal artery aneurysms using the
multilayer stent. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2011;34:637-41.
67. Paci E, Mincarelli C, Fichetti M, Alborino S, Antico E,
Candelari R. Stent-assisted coil embolization of renal artery
bifurcation aneurysm using the kissing stent technique.
J Vasc Interv Radiol 2011;22:1485-7.
68. Somarouthu B, Rabinov J, Waichi W, Kalva SP. Stent-assisted coil embolization of an intraparenchymal renal artery
aneurysm in a patient with neuroﬁbromatosis. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2011;45:368-71.
69. Kitzing B, Vedelago J, Bajic N, Lai G, Waugh R. Stent-assisted coil embolization of a wide-necked renal artery aneurysm. J Radiol Case Rep 2010;4:20-4.
70. Manninen HI, Berg M, Vanninen RL. Stent-assisted coil
embolization of wide-necked renal artery bifurcation aneurysms. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2008;19:487-92.
71. Ikeda O, Tamura Y, Nakasone Y, Iryou Y, Yamashita Y.
Nonoperative management of unruptured visceral artery
aneurysms: treatment by transcatheter coil embolization.
J Vasc Surg 2008;47:1212-9.
72. Etezadi V, Gandhi RT, Benenati JF, Rochon P, Gordon M,
Benenati MJ, et al. Endovascular treatment of visceral and
renal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2011;22:1246-53.
73. Abdel-Kerim A, Cassagnes L, Alﬁdja A, Gageanu C, Favrolt G,
Dumousset E, et al. Endovascular treatment of eight renal
artery aneurysms. Acta Radiol 2012;53:430-4.
74. Sedat J, Chau Y, Baque J. Endovascular treatment of renal
aneurysms: a series of 18 cases. Eur J Radiol 2012;81:3973-8.
75. Zhang Z, Yang M, Song L, Tong X, Zou Y. Endovascular
treatment of renal artery aneurysms and renal arteriovenous ﬁstulas. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:765-70.
76. Gandini R, Morosetti D, Chiocchi M, Chiaravalloti A, Citraro D,
Loreni G, et al. Long-term follow-up of endovascular treatment of renal artery aneurysms with covered stent deployment. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2016;57:625-33.

77. Luke P, Knudsen BE, Nguan CY, Pautler SE, Swinnimer S,
Kiaii R, et al. Robot-assisted laparoscopic renal artery
aneurysm reconstruction. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:651-3.
78. Giulianotti PC, Bianco FM, Addeo P, Lombardi A, Coratti A,
Sbrana F. Robot-assisted laparoscopic repair of renal artery
aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2010;51:842-9.
79. Gheza F, Coratti F, Masrur M, Calatayud D, Annecchiarico M,
Coratti A, et al. Robot-assisted renal artery aneurysm repair
with a saphenous vein Y-graft interposition. Surg Endosc
2013;27:1404-5.
80. Samarasekera D, Autorino R, Khalifeh A, Kaouk JH. Robotassisted laparoscopic renal artery aneurysm repair with
selective arterial clamping. Int J Urol 2014;21:114-6.
81. Olin JW, Gornik HL, Bacharach JM, Biller J, Fine LJ, Gray BH,
et al. Fibromuscular dysplasia: state of the science and
critical unanswered questions: a scientiﬁc statement from
the American Heart Association. Circulation 2014;129:
1048-78.
82. Agrawal GA, Johnson PT, Fishman EK. Splenic artery aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms: clinical distinctions and CT
appearances. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2007;188:992-9.
83. Saba L, Anzidei M, Lucatelli P, Mallarini G. The multidetector
computed tomography angiography (MDCTA) in the
diagnosis of splenic artery aneurysm and pseudoaneurysm.
Acta Radiol 2011;52:488-98.
84. Al-Habbal Y, Christophi C, Muralidharan V. Aneurysms of
the splenic arteryda review. Surgeon 2010;8:223-31.
85. Russo A, Francia C, Zaottini A, Pagliei M. Giant splenic artery
aneurysm, incidentally diagnosed. Ann Ital Chir 2008;79:
371-5.
86. Pilleul F, Forest J, Beuf O. [Magnetic resonance angiography
of splanchnic artery aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms].
J Radiol 2006;87(Pt 1):127-31.
87. Stanley JC, Wakeﬁeld TW, Graham LM, Whitehouse WM Jr,
Zelenock GB, Lindenauer SM. Clinical importance and
management of splanchnic artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg
1986;3:836-40.
88. Dave SP, Reis ED, Hossain A, Taub PJ, Kerstein MD,
Hollier LH. Splenic artery aneurysm in the 1990s. Ann Vasc
Surg 2000;14:223-9.
89. Stanley JC, Fry WJ. Pathogenesis and clinical signiﬁcance of
splenic artery aneurysms. Surgery 1974;76:898-909.
90. Barrett JM, Van Hooydonk JE, Boehm FH. Pregnancyrelated rupture of arterial aneurysms. Obstet Gynecol Surv
1982;37:557-66.
91. Holdsworth RJ, Gunn A. Ruptured splenic artery aneurysm
in pregnancy. A review. Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1992;99:595-7.
92. Pitton MB, Dappa E, Jungmann F, Kloeckner R, Schotten S,
Wirth GM, et al. Visceral artery aneurysms: incidence,
management, and outcome analysis in a tertiary care
center over one decade. Eur Radiol 2015;25:2004-14.
93. Berceli SA. Hepatic and splenic artery aneurysms. Semin
Vasc Surg 2005;18:196-201.
94. Lakin RO, Bena JF, Sarac TP, Shah S, Krajewski LP,
Srivastava SD, et al. The contemporary management of
splenic artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:958-64; discussion: 965.
95. Tessier DJ, Stone WM, Fowl RJ, Abbas MA, Andrews JC,
Bower TC, et al. Clinical features and management of
splenic artery pseudoaneurysm: case series and cumulative
review of literature. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:969-74.
96. Parangi S, Levine D, Henry A, Isakovich N, Pories S. Surgical
gastrointestinal disorders during pregnancy. Am J Surg
2007;193:223-32.
97. Hemp JH, Sabri SS. Endovascular management of visceral
arterial aneurysms. Tech Vasc Interv Radiol 2015;18:14-23.

36S

Chaer et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
July Supplement 2020

98. Messina LM, Shanley CJ. Visceral artery aneurysms. Surg Clin
North Am 1997;77:425-42.
99. Nosher JL, Chung J, Brevetti LS, Graham AM, Siegel RL.
Visceral and renal artery aneurysms: a pictorial essay on
endovascular therapy. Radiographics 2006;26:1687-704.
100. Arca MJ, Gagner M, Heniford BT, Sullivan TM, Beven EG.
Splenic artery aneurysms: methods of laparoscopic repair.
J Vasc Surg 1999;30:184-8.
101. Mastracci TM, Cadeddu M, Colopinto RF, Cina C.
A minimally invasive approach to the treatment of aberrant
splenic artery aneurysms: a report of two cases. J Vasc Surg
2005;41:1053-7.
102. Mattar SG, Lumsden AB. The management of splenic artery
aneurysms: experience with 23 cases. Am J Surg 1995;169:
580-4.
103. Huang IH, Zuckerman DA, Matthews JB. Occlusion of
a giant splenic artery pseudoaneurysm with percutaneous thrombin-collagen injection. J Vasc Surg
2004;40:574-7.
104. Carroccio A, Jacobs TS, Faries P, Ellozy SH, Teodorescu VJ,
Ting W, et al. Endovascular treatment of visceral artery aneurysms. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2007;41:373-82.
105. Saltzberg SS, Maldonado TS, Lamparello PJ, Cayne NS,
Nalbandian MM, Rosen RJ, et al. Is endovascular therapy
the preferred treatment for all visceral artery aneurysms?
Ann Vasc Surg 2005;19:507-15.
106. Hogendoorn W, Lavida A, Hunink MG, Moll FL, Geroulakos G,
Muhs BE, et al. Cost-effectiveness of endovascular repair,
open repair, and conservative management of splenic artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:1432-40.
107. Chadha M, Ahuja C. Visceral artery aneurysms: diagnosis
and percutaneous management. Semin Intervent Radiol
2009;26:196-206.
108. Abbas MA, Stone WM, Fowl RJ, Gloviczki P, Oldenburg WA,
Pairolero PC, et al. Splenic artery aneurysms: two decades
experience at Mayo Clinic. Ann Vasc Surg 2002;16:442-9.
109. Schanzer H, Papa MC, Miller CM. Rupture of surgically
thrombosed abdominal aortic aneurysm. J Vasc Surg
1985;2:278-80.
110. Schwartz RA, Nichols WK, Silver D. Is thrombosis of the
infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm an acceptable
alternative? J Vasc Surg 1986;3:448-55.
111. Carr SC, Pearce WH, Vogelzang RL, McCarthy WJ,
Nemcek AA Jr, Yao JS. Current management of visceral
artery aneurysms. Surgery 1996;120:627-33; discussion: 633-4.
112. Onohara T, Okadome K, Mii S, Yasumori K, Muto Y,
Sugimachi K. Rupture of embolised coeliac artery pseudoaneurysm into the stomach: is coil embolisation an
effective treatment for coeliac anastomotic pseudoaneurysm? Eur J Vasc Surg 1992;6:330-2.
113. Sessa C, Tinelli G, Porcu P, Aubert A, Thony F, Magne JL.
Treatment of visceral artery aneurysms: description of a
retrospective series of 42 aneurysms in 34 patients. Ann
Vasc Surg 2004;18:695-703.
114. Grosso M, Zanon E, Mancini A, Gomes Pavanello I,
Bocchio A, Zanlungo D, et al. [Percutaneous transcatheter
therapy of visceral pseudoaneurysms]. Minerva Chir 1998;53:
363-8.
115. Miller DW Jr, Royster TS. Celiac artery aneurysm: rationale
for celiac axis ligation with excisional treatment. Vasc Surg
1971;5:42-7.
116. Graham LM, Stanley JC, Whitehouse WM Jr, Zelenock GB,
Wakeﬁeld TW, Cronenwett JL, et al. Celiac artery aneurysms:
historic (1745-1949) versus contemporary (1950-1984) differences in etiology and clinical importance. J Vasc Surg
1985;2:757-64.

117. Stone WM, Abbas MA, Gloviczki P, Fowl RJ, Cherry KJ. Celiac
arterial aneurysms: a critical reappraisal of a rare entity.
Arch Surg 2002;137:670-4.
118. McMullan DM, McBride M, Livesay JJ, Dougherty KG,
Krajcer Z. Celiac artery aneurysm: a case report. Tex Heart
Inst J 2006;33:235-40.
119. Rokke O, Sondenaa K, Amundsen S, Bjerke-Larssen T,
Jensen D. The diagnosis and management of splanchnic
artery aneurysms. Scand J Gastroenterol 1996;31:737-43.
120. Hosaka A, Nemoto M, Miyata T. Outcomes of conservative
management of spontaneous celiac artery dissection.
J Vasc Surg 2017;65:760-5.e1.
121. Otsuka H, Sato T, Aoki H, Nakagawa Y, Inokuchi S. Optimal
management strategy for spontaneous isolated dissection
of a visceral artery. Vascular 2018;26:169-74.
122. Guo B, Guo D, Xu X, Chen B, Shi Z, Luo J, et al. Early and
intermediate results of endovascular treatment of symptomatic and asymptomatic visceral artery aneurysms.
J Vasc Surg 2016;64:140-8.
123. Tetreau R, Beji H, Henry L, Valette PJ, Pilleul F. Arterial
splanchnic aneurysms: presentation, treatment and
outcome in 112 patients. Diagn Interv Imaging 2016;97:
81-90.
124. Atkins BZ, Ryan JM, Gray JL. Treatment of a celiac artery
aneurysm with endovascular stent graftingda case report.
Vasc Endovascular Surg 2003;37:367-73.
125. D’Ayala M, Deitch JS, deGraft-Johnson J, Nguyen E,
McGagh D, Gwertzman GA, et al. Giant celiac artery aneurysm with associated visceral occlusive disease. Vascular
2004;12:390-3.
126. Glickerman DJ, Hathaway PB, Hatsukami T, Daly CP,
Althaus S, Kohler TR. Transluminal treatment of a celiac
artery pseudoaneurysm with a stent graft occlusion device.
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 1997;20:466-9.
127. Matsukura I, Iwai T, Inoue Y. Celiac artery aneurysm: report
of two surgical cases. Surg Today 1999;29:948-52.
128. McIntyre TP, Simone ST, Stahlfeld KR. Intraoperative
thrombin occlusion of a visceral artery aneurysm. J Vasc
Surg 2002;36:393-5.
129. Rodrigus IE, Berry MC, Gdeedo A, Van Schil PE,
Vanmaele RG. Surgical management of concurrent, coeliac
and bilateral iliac artery aneurysms. Cardiovasc Surg 1995;3:
501-3.
130. Waldenberger P, Bendix N, Petersen J, Tauscher T,
Glodny B. Clinical outcome of endovascular therapeutic
occlusion of the celiac artery. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:655-61.
131. Dinter DJ, Rexin M, Kaehler G, Neff W. Fatal coil migration
into the stomach 10 years after endovascular celiac aneurysm repair. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2007;18(Pt 1):117-20.
132. Roberts KJ, McCulloch N, Forde C, Mahon B, Mangat K,
Olliff SP, et al. Emergency treatment of haemorrhaging
coeliac or mesenteric artery aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms in the era of endovascular management. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2015;49:382-9.
133. Hossain A, Reis ED, Dave SP, Kerstein MD, Hollier LH.
Visceral artery aneurysms: experience in a tertiary-care
center. Am Surg 2001;67:432-7.
134. Carmeci C, McClenathan J. Visceral artery aneurysms as
seen in a community hospital. Am J Surg 2000;179:486-9.
135. Vasconcelos L, Garcia AC, Silva e Castro J, Albuquerque e
Castro J, Mota Capitao L. Celiac artery aneurysms. Ann Vasc
Surg 2010;24:554.e17-22.
136. Inada K, Maeda M, Ikeda T. Segmental arterial mediolysis:
unrecognized cases culled from cases of ruptured aneurysm of abdominal visceral arteries reported in the Japanese literature. Pathol Res Pract 2007;203:771-8.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

37S

Volume 72, Number 1S
137. Chiaradia M, Novelli L, Deux JF, Tacher V, Mayer J, You K,
et al. Ruptured visceral artery aneurysms. Diagn Interv
Imaging 2015;96:797-806.
138. Vargas HA, Cousins C, Higgins JN, See TC. Left gastric artery
aneurysm: successful embolization with ethylene vinyl
alcohol copolymer (Onyx). Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol
2008;31:418-21.
139. Sandstrom A, Jha P. Ruptured left gastric artery aneurysms:
three cases managed successfully with open surgical
repair. Ann Vasc Surg 2016;36:296.e9-12.
140. Carr SC, Mahvi DM, Hoch JR, Archer CW, Turnipseed WD.
Visceral artery aneurysm rupture. J Vasc Surg 2001;33:806-11.
141. Lagoudianakis EE, Filis KA, Tsekouras DK, Genetzakis M,
Archontovassilis F, Pattas M, et al. Endovascular obliteration
of a ruptured right gastric artery aneurysm. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol 2006;52:333-7.
142. Schellhammer F, Steinhaus D, Cohnen M, Hoppe J,
Modder U, Furst G. Minimally invasive therapy of pseudoaneurysms of the trunk: application of thrombin. Cardiovasc
Intervent Radiol 2008;31:535-41.
143. Ikeda O, Nakasone Y, Tamura Y, Yamashita Y. Endovascular
management of visceral artery pseudoaneurysms: transcatheter coil embolization using the isolation technique.
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2010;33:1128-34.
144. Lagana D, Carraﬁello G, Mangini M, Dizonno M, Fugazzola C.
Emergency endovascular treatment with stent graft of a
gastric artery aneurysms (GAA). Emerg Radiol 2008;15:141-4.
145. Tseng KC, Hsieh YH, Lin CW, Chang SM, Wei CK. Aneurysms
of the left gastric and splenic arteries presenting with
massive upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Endoscopy
2009;41(Suppl 2):E131-2.
146. Shinoda N, Hirai O, Mikami K, Bando T, Shimo D,
Kuroyama T, et al. Segmental arterial mediolysis involving
both vertebral and middle colic arteries leading to subarachnoid and intraperitoneal hemorrhage. World Neurosurg 2016;88:694.e5-10.
147. Shimohira M, Ogino H, Sasaki S, Ishikawa K, Koyama M,
Watanabe K, et al. Transcatheter arterial embolization for
segmental arterial mediolysis. J Endovasc Ther 2008;15:
493-7.
148. Fankhauser GT, Stone WM, Naidu SG, Oderich GS,
Ricotta JJ, Bjarnason H, et al. The minimally invasive management of visceral artery aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:966-70.
149. Batagini NC, El-Arousy H, Clair DG, Kirksey L. Open versus
endovascular treatment of visceral artery aneurysms and
pseudoaneurysms. Ann Vasc Surg 2016;35:1-8.
150. Abbas MA, Fowl RJ, Stone WM, Panneton JM,
Oldenburg WA, Bower TC, et al. Hepatic artery aneurysm:
factors that predict complications. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:41-5.
151. Lumsden AB, Mattar SG, Allen RC, Bacha EA. Hepatic artery
aneurysms: the management of 22 patients. J Surg Res
1996;60:345-50.
152. Erben Y, De Martino RR, Bjarnason H, Duncan AA, Kalra M,
Oderich GS, et al. Operative management of hepatic artery
aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:610-5.
153. Lal RB, Strohl JA, Piazza S, Aslam M, Ball D, Patel K.
Hepatic artery aneurysm. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1989;30:
509-13.
154. Chan RJ, Goodman TA, Aretz TH, Lie JT. Segmental mediolytic arteriopathy of the splenic and hepatic arteries
mimicking systemic necrotizing vasculitis. Arthritis Rheum
1998;41:935-8.
155. den Bakker MA, Tangkau PL, Steffens TW, Tjiam SL, van
der Loo EM. Rupture of a hepatic artery aneurysm caused
by Wegener’s granulomatosis. Pathol Res Pract 1997;193:
61-6.

156. Caputo AE, Roberts WN, Yee YS, Posner MP. Hepatic artery
aneurysm in corticosteroid-treated, adult Kawasaki’s disease. Ann Vasc Surg 1991;5:533-7.
157. Hassen-Khodja R, Declemy S, Batt M, Castanet J, Perrin C,
Ortonne JP, et al. Visceral artery aneurysms in von Recklinghausen’s neuroﬁbromatosis. J Vasc Surg 1997;25:572-5.
158. Koyama M, Tanaka M, Shimizu M, Nomura S, Kako N,
Suzuki S, et al. Surgical treatment of mesenteric infarction,
thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm, and proper hepatic
aneurysm in a middle-aged woman with Takayasu’s arteritis. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1995;36:337-41.
159. Erskine JM. Hepatic artery aneurysm. Vasc Surg 1973;7:
106-25.
160. Cordova AC, Sumpio BE. Visceral artery aneurysms and
pseduoaneurysmsdshould they all be managed by endovascular techniques? Ann Vasc Dis 2013;6:687-93.
161. Hidalgo F, Narvaez JA, Rene M, Dominguez J, Sancho C,
Montanya X. Treatment of hemobilia with selective hepatic
artery embolization. J Vasc Interv Radiol 1995;6:793-8.
162. Tarazov PG, Ryzhkov VK, Polysalov VN, Prozorovskii KV,
Polikarpov AA. Extraorganic hepatic artery aneurysm: failure of transcatheter embolization. HPB Surg 1998;11:55-9;
discussion: 59-60.
163. McNamara MF, Griska LB. Superior mesenteric artery
branch aneurysms. Surgery 1980;88:625-30.
164. Busuttil RW, Brin BJ. The diagnosis and management of
visceral artery aneurysms. Surgery 1980;88:619-24.
165. Honarbakhsh A, Madjlessi HM, Davaii M, Saldjooghi H.
Aneurysm of superior mesenteric artery: identiﬁcation with
ultrasonography. J Clin Ultrasound 1993;21:207-8.
166. Shanley CJ, Shah NL, Messina LM. Uncommon splanchnic
artery aneurysms: pancreaticoduodenal, gastroduodenal,
superior mesenteric, inferior mesenteric, and colic. Ann
Vasc Surg 1996;10:506-15.
167. Dong Z, Fu W, Chen B, Guo D, Xu X, Wang Y. Treatment of
symptomatic isolated dissection of superior mesenteric
artery. J Vasc Surg 2013;57(Suppl):69S-76S.
168. Yun WS, Kim YW, Park KB, Cho SK, Do YS, Lee KB, et al.
Clinical and angiographic follow-up of spontaneous isolated superior mesenteric artery dissection. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2009;37:572-7.
169. Lorelli DR, Cambria RA, Seabrook GR, Towne JB. Diagnosis
and management of aneurysms involving the superior
mesenteric artery and its branchesda report of four cases.
Vasc Endovascular Surg 2003;37:59-66.
170. Kanazawa S, Inada H, Murakami T, Masaki H, Morita I,
Tabuchi A, et al. The diagnosis and management of
splanchnic artery aneurysms. Report of 8 cases.
J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1997;38:479-85.
171. Zelenock GB, Stanley JC. Splanchnic artery aneurysms. In:
Rutherford RB, editor. Vascular surgery. Philadelphia: WB
Saunders; 2000. p. 1369-82.
172. Tan C, Reul R. Inferior mesenteric artery aneurysm in the
setting of celiac and superior mesenteric artery occlusion.
J Vasc Surg Cases Innov Tech 2019;5:197-9.
173. Rahman Q, Naidu SG, Chong BW, Stone WM. Percutaneous
embolization of an inferior mesenteric artery aneurysm in a
patient with type IV Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2019;53:343-7.
174. Hansraj N, Hamdi A, Wise ES, DiChiacchio L, Sarkar R,
Toursavadkohi S. Open and endovascular management of
inferior mesenteric artery aneurysms: a report of two cases.
Ann Vasc Surg 2017;43:316.e9-14.
175. Farber A, Wagner WH, Cossman DV, Cohen JL, Walsh DB,
Fillinger MF, et al. Isolated dissection of the abdominal
aorta: clinical presentation and therapeutic options. J Vasc
Surg 2002;36:205-10.

38S

Chaer et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
July Supplement 2020

176. Kim SK, Lee J, Duncan JR, Picus DD, Darcy MD, Sauk S.
Endovascular treatment of superior mesenteric artery
pseudoaneurysms using covered stents in six patients. AJR
Am J Roentgenol 2014;203:432-8.
177. Shanley CJ, Shah NL, Messina LM. Common splanchnic artery aneurysms: splenic, hepatic, and celiac. Ann Vasc Surg
1996;10:315-22.
178. Morra A, Rimondini A, Adovasio R. Jejunal artery aneurysm:
diagnostic efﬁcacy of spiral CT angiography. A case report.
Radiol Med 2002;104:95-8.
179. Pilleul F, Beuf O. Diagnosis of splanchnic artery aneurysms
and pseudoaneurysms, with special reference to contrast
enhanced 3D magnetic resonance angiography: a review.
Acta Radiol 2004;45:702-8.
180. Sachdev-Ost U. Visceral artery aneurysms: review of current
management options. Mt Sinai J Med 2010;77:296-303.
181. Gofﬁ L, Chan R, Boccoli G, Ghiselli R, Saba V. Aneurysm of a
jejunal branch of the superior mesenteric artery in a patient
with Marfan’s syndrome. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2000;41:
321-3.
182. Hong YK, Yoo WH. Massive gastrointestinal bleeding due
to the rupture of arterial aneurysm in Behçet’s disease:
case report and literature review. Rheumatol Int 2008;28:
1151-4.
183. Sellke FW, Williams GB, Donovan DL, Clarke RE. Management of intra-abdominal aneurysms associated with periarteritis nodosa. J Vasc Surg 1986;4:294-8.
184. Tessier DJ, Abbas MA, Fowl RJ, Stone WM, Bower TC,
McKusick MA, et al. Management of rare mesenteric arterial
branch aneurysms. Ann Vasc Surg 2002;16:586-90.
185. Costa S, Costa A, Pereira T, Maciel J. Ruptured jejunal artery
aneurysm. BMJ Case Rep 2013;2013. bcr2013008772.
186. Balderi A, Antonietti A, Ferro L, Peano E, Pedrazzini F,
Fonio P, et al. Endovascular treatment of visceral artery
aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms: our experience. Radiol
Med 2012;117:815-30.
187. Rossi UG, Seitun S, Ferro C. Endovascular embolization of a
third jejunal artery aneurysm: isolation technique using the
Amplatzer vascular plug 4. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv
2013;81:1049-52.
188. Turkbey B, Peynircioglu B, Akpinar E, Cil BE,
Karcaaltincaba M. Isolated aneurysm of the distal branch of
the jejunal artery: MDCT angiographic diagnosis and
endovascular management. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol
2008;31(Suppl 2):S34-7.
189. Ham EM, Cho BS, Ye JB, Mun YS, Choi YJ, Kwon OS. The
endovascular treatment of a ruptured aneurysm of the
middle colic artery combined with an isolated dissection of
superior mesenteric artery: report of a case. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2014;48:352-5.
190. Huang YK, Hsieh HC, Tsai FC, Chang SH, Lu MS, Ko PJ.
Visceral artery aneurysm: risk factor analysis and therapeutic opinion. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2007;33:293-301.
191. Huo CW. Middle colic artery aneurysm: a case report and
review of the literature. Ann Vasc Surg 2012;26:571.e1-6.
192. Moskowitz R, Rundback J. Middle colic artery branch
aneurysm presenting as spontaneous hemoperitoneum.
Ann Vasc Surg 2014;28:1797.e15-7.
193. Nishimura K, Hamasaki T, Ota R, Ohno T, Kodama W,
Uchida N, et al. Elective treatment of middle colic artery
aneurysm. Ann Vasc Dis 2014;7:328-30.
194. Lu M, Weiss C, Fishman EK, Johnson PT, Verde F. Review of
visceral aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms. J Comput Assist
Tomogr 2015;39:1-6.
195. Chivot C, Rebibo L, Robert B, Regimbeau JM, Yzet T.
Ruptured pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms associated with celiac stenosis caused by the median arcuate

ligament: a poorly known etiology of acute abdominal pain.
Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2016;51:295-301.
196. Ilica AT, Kocaoglu M, Bilici A, Ors F, Bukte Y, Senol A, et al.
Median arcuate ligament syndrome: multidetector
computed tomography ﬁndings. J Comput Assist Tomogr
2007;31:728-31.
197. Kallamadi R, Demoya MA, Kalva SP. Inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms in association with celiac stenosis/occlusion. Semin Intervent Radiol 2009;26:
215-23.
198. Perez C, Llauger J, Pallardo Y, Sanchis E, Sabate JM.
Radiologic diagnosis of pseudoaneurysms complicating
pancreatitis. Eur J Radiol 1993;16:102-6.
199. Uno A, Ishida H, Naganuma H, Niizawa M, Sawabe J,
Masamune O. Color Doppler ﬁndings in small abdominal
aneurysms. Abdom Imaging 1994;19:410-2.
200. Columbo JA, Trus T, Nolan B, Goodney P, Rzucidlo E,
Powell R, et al. Contemporary management of median
arcuate ligament syndrome provides early symptom
improvement. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:151-6.
201. Gruber H, Loizides A, Peer S, Gruber I. Ultrasound of the
median arcuate ligament syndrome: a new approach to
diagnosis. Med Ultrason 2012;14:5-9.
202. Glockner JF, Takahashi N, Kawashima A, Woodrum DA,
Stanley DW, Takei N, et al. Non-contrast renal artery MRA
using an inﬂow inversion recovery steady state free precession technique (Inhance): comparison with 3D contrastenhanced MRA. J Magn Reson Imaging 2010;31:1411-8.
203. Hartung MP, Grist TM, Francois CJ. Magnetic resonance
angiography: current status and future directions.
J Cardiovasc Magn Reson 2011;13:19.
204. Khoo MM, Deeab D, Gedroyc WM, Duncan N, Taube D,
Dick EA. Renal artery stenosis: comparative assessment by
unenhanced renal artery MRA versus contrast-enhanced
MRA. Eur Radiol 2011;21:1470-6.
205. Loffroy R, Favelier S, Pottecher P, Genson PY, Estivalet L,
Gehin S, et al. Endovascular management of visceral artery
aneurysms: when to watch, when to intervene? World J
Radiol 2015;7:143-8.
206. de Perrot M, Berney T, Deleaval J, Buhler L, Mentha G,
Morel P. Management of true aneurysms of the pancreaticoduodenal arteries. Ann Surg 1999;229:416-20.
207. Corey MJ, Ergul EA, Cambria RP, English SJ, Patel VI,
Lancaster RT, et al. SS24. The natural history of splanchnic
artery aneurysms (SAAs) and outcomes following operative
intervention. J Vasc Surg 2015;61(Suppl):110s-1s.
208. Katsura M, Gushimiyagi M, Takara H, Mototake H. True
aneurysm of the pancreaticoduodenal arteries: a single
institution experience. J Gastrointest Surg 2010;14:1409-13.
209. Shukla AJ, Eid R, Fish L, Avgerinos E, Marone L, Makaroun M,
et al. Contemporary outcomes of intact and ruptured
visceral artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:1442-7.
210. De Santis F, Bruni A, Da Ros V, Chaves Brait CM, Scevola G,
Di Cintio V. Multiple pancreatoduodenal artery arcade aneurysms associated with celiac axis root segmental stenosis
presenting as aneurysm rupture. Ann Vasc Surg 2015;29:
1657.e1-7.
211. Boll JM, Sharp KW, Garrard CL, Naslund TC, Curci JA,
Valentine RJ. Does management of true aneurysms of
peripancreatic arteries require repair of associated celiac
artery stenosis? J Am Coll Surg 2017;224:199-203.
212. Corey MR, Ergul EA, Cambria RP, English SJ, Patel VI,
Lancaster RT, et al. The natural history of splanchnic artery
aneurysms and outcomes after operative intervention.
J Vasc Surg 2016;63:949-57.
213. Ferrero E, Ferri M, Viazzo A, Robaldo A, Carbonatto P,
Pecchio A, et al. Visceral artery aneurysms, an experience

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Chaer et al

39S

Volume 72, Number 1S
on 32 cases in a single center: treatment from surgery to
multilayer stent. Ann Vasc Surg 2011;25:923-35.
214. Takao H, Nojo T, Ohtomo K. True pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms: a decision analysis. Eur J Radiol 2010;75:
110-3.
215. Brocker JA, Maher JL, Smith RW. True pancreaticoduodenal
aneurysms with celiac stenosis or occlusion. Am J Surg
2012;204:762-8.
216. Orion KC, Najaﬁan A, Ehlert BA, Malas MB, Black JH 3rd,
Abularrage CJ. Gender predicts rupture of pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms. Ann Vasc Surg 2016;36:
1-6.
217. Guillon R, Garcier JM, Abergel A, Moﬁd R, Garcia V, Chahid T,
et al. Management of splenic artery aneurysms and false
aneurysms with endovascular treatment in 12 patients.
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2003;26:256-60.
218. Roy D, Milot G, Raymond J. Endovascular treatment of
unruptured aneurysms. Stroke 2001;32:1998-2004.
219. Mascitelli JR, Moyle H, Oermann EK, Polykarpou MF,
Patel AA, Doshi AH, et al. An update to the Raymond-Roy
Occlusion Classiﬁcation of intracranial aneurysms treated
with coil embolization. J Neurointerv Surg 2015;7:496-502.
220. Marjanovic IR, Jevtic M, Misovic S, Rusovic S, Zoranovic U,
Sarac M. Endovascular reconstruction of giant gastroduodenal artery aneurysm with stent graft: case report. Vasc
Endovascular Surg 2010;44:392-4.
221. Lykoudis PM, Stafyla VK, Koutoulidis V, Xatziioannou A,
Arkadopoulos N, Mourikis I, et al. Stenting of a gastroduodenal artery aneurysm: report of a case. Surg Today 2012;42:
72-4.
222. Won Y, Lee SL, Kim Y, Ku YM. Clinical efﬁcacy of transcatheter embolization of visceral artery pseudoaneurysms
using N-butyl cyanoacrylate (NBCA). Diagn Interv Imaging
2015;96:563-9.
223. Mazzaccaro D, Carmo M, Nano G, Barbetta I,
Settembrini AM, Occhiuto MT, et al. Treatment options for
visceral artery aneurysms: ten year experience. J Cardiovasc
Surg (Torino) 2015;56:423-32.
224. Song HH, Won YD, Kim YJ. Transcatheter N-butyl cyanoacrylate embolization of pseudoaneurysms. J Vasc Interv
Radiol 2010;21:1508-11.
225. Pollak JS, White RI Jr. The use of cyanoacrylate adhesives in
peripheral embolization. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2001;12:907-13.
226. Shankar JJ, Tampieri D, Iancu D, Cortes M, Agid R, Krings T,
et al. SILK ﬂow diverter for complex intracranial aneurysms:
a Canadian registry. J Neurointerv Surg 2016;8:273-8.
227. Rufﬁno M, Rabbia C. Endovascular treatment of visceral
artery aneurysms with Cardiatis multilayer ﬂow modulator:
preliminary results at six-month follow-up. J Cardiovasc
Surg (Torino) 2011;52:311-21.
228. Sutton D, Lawton G. Coeliac stenosis or occlusion with
aneurysm of the collateral supply. Clin Radiol 1973;24:49-53.

229. Moore E, Matthews MR, Minion DJ, Quick R, Schwarcz TH,
Loh FK, et al. Surgical management of peripancreatic
arterial aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:247-53.
230. Bowens NM, Woo EY, Fairman RM. Reno-hepatic artery
bypass for an inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysm with associated celiac occlusion. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:
1696-8.
231. Tien YW, Kao HL, Wang HP. Celiac artery stenting: a new
strategy for patients with pancreaticoduodenal artery
aneurysm associated with stenosis of the celiac artery.
J Gastroenterol 2004;39:81-5.
232. Sugiyama K, Takehara Y. Analysis of ﬁve cases of splanchnic
artery aneurysm associated with coeliac artery stenosis due
to compression by the median arcuate ligament. Clin
Radiol 2007;62:688-93.
233. Grech P, Rowlands P, Crofton M. Aneurysm of the inferior
pancreaticoduodenal artery diagnosed by real-time ultrasound and pulsed Doppler. Br J Radiol 1989;62:753-5.
234. Salam TA, Lumsden AB, Martin LG, Smith RB 3rd. Nonoperative management of visceral aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms. Am J Surg 1992;164:215-9.
235. Yasumoto T, Osuga K, Yamamoto H, Ono Y, Masada M,
Mikami K, et al. Long-term outcomes of coil packing for
visceral aneurysms: correlation between packing density
and incidence of coil compaction or recanalization. J Vasc
Interv Radiol 2013;24:1798-807.
236. Skipworth JR, Morkane C, Raptis DA, Kennedy L, Johal K,
Pendse D, et al. Coil migrationda rare complication of
endovascular exclusion of visceral artery pseudoaneurysms
and aneurysms. Ann R Coll Surg Engl 2011;93:e19-23.
237. Yamamoto S, Hirota S, Maeda H, Achiwa S, Arai K,
Kobayashi K, et al. Transcatheter coil embolization of
splenic artery aneurysm. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol
2008;31:527-34.
238. Koganemaru M, Abe T, Uchiyama D, Iwamoto R, Yoshida S,
Hayabuchi N, et al. Detection of neck recanalization with
follow-up contrast-enhanced MR angiography after renal
artery aneurysm coil embolization. J Vasc Interv Radiol
2010;21:298-300.
239. Koganemaru M, Abe T, Nonoshita M, Iwamoto R,
Kusumoto M, Kuhara A, et al. Follow-up of true visceral artery aneurysm after coil embolization by three-dimensional
contrast-enhanced MR angiography. Diagn Interv Radiol
2014;20:129-35.
240. Piscaglia F, Gualandi S, Galassi M, Giampalma E, Golﬁeri R,
Bolondi L. Contrast enhanced ultrasonography for the
evaluation of coil embolization of splenic artery aneurysm.
Circulation 2010;122:e451-4.

Submitted Jan 21, 2020; accepted Jan 22, 2020.

