SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY PRACTICE GUIDELINES
Chronic mesenteric ischemia: Clinical practice guidelines from the
Society for Vascular Surgery
Thomas S. Huber, MD, PhD,a Martin Björck, MD,b Ankur Chandra, MD,c W. Darrin Clouse, MD,d
Michael C. Dalsing, MD,e Gustavo S. Oderich, MD,f Matthew R. Smeds, MD,g and M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,h
Gainesville, Fla; Uppsala, Sweden; La Jolla, Calif; Charlottesville, Va; Indianapolis, Ind; Houston, Tex; St. Louis, Mo; and
Rochester, Minn

ABSTRACT
Background: Chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) results from the inability to achieve adequate postprandial intestinal
blood ﬂow, usually from atherosclerotic occlusive disease at the origins of the mesenteric vessels. Patients typically
present with postprandial pain, food fear, and weight loss, although they can present with acute mesenteric ischemia
and bowel infarction. The diagnosis requires a combination of the appropriate clinical symptoms and signiﬁcant
mesenteric artery occlusive disease, although it is often delayed given the spectrum of gastrointestinal disorders associated with abdominal pain and weight loss. The treatment goals include relieving the presenting symptoms, preventing
progression to acute mesenteric ischemia, and improving overall quality of life. These practice guidelines were developed
to provide the best possible evidence for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with CMI from atherosclerosis.
Methods: The Society for Vascular Surgery established a committee composed of vascular surgeons and individuals
experienced with evidence-based reviews. The committee focused on six speciﬁc areas, including the diagnostic evaluation,
indications for treatment, choice of treatment, perioperative evaluation, endovascular/open revascularization, and surveillance/remediation. A formal systematic review was performed by the evidence team to identify the optimal technique
for revascularization. Speciﬁc practice recommendations were developed using the Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation system based on review of literature, the strength of the data, and consensus.
Results: Patients with symptoms consistent with CMI should undergo an expedited workup, including a computed tomography arteriogram, to exclude other potential causes. The diagnosis is supported by signiﬁcant arterial occlusive disease
in the mesenteric vessels, particularly the superior mesenteric artery. Treatment requires revascularization with the primary
target being the superior mesenteric artery. Endovascular revascularization with a balloon-expandable covered intraluminal stent is the recommended initial treatment with open repair reserved for select younger patients and those who are
not endovascular candidates. Long-term follow-up and surveillance are recommended after revascularization and for
asymptomatic patients with severe mesenteric occlusive disease. Patient with recurrent symptoms after revascularization
owing to recurrent stenoses should be treated with an endovascular-ﬁrst approach, similar to the de novo lesion.
Conclusions: These practice guidelines were developed based on the best available evidence. They should help to
optimize the care of patients with CMI. Multiple areas for future research were identiﬁed. (J Vasc Surg 2021;73:87S-115S.)

Department of Surgery, University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville,
FL 32610-0128 (e-mail: thomas.huber@surgery.uﬂ.edu).

Scripps Green Hospital, La Jollac; the Division of Vascular and Endovascular

Independent peer-review and oversight has been provided by members of the

Surgery, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesvilled; the Division of

SVS Document Oversight Committee (Ruth Bush, Chair, Marc Schermerhorn,

Vascular Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolise; the Di-

Vice-Chair, Keith Calligaro, Mark Davies, Yazan Duwayri, Mohammad Eslami,

vision of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of Texas Health Sci-

Alik Farber, Raul Guzman, Katherine McGinigle Gregory Landry, Mahmoud

ence Center at Houston - McGovern Medical School, Houstonf; the Division

Malas, Sheppard Mondy, John Rectenwald, William Robinson, Britt Tonnes-

of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Saint Louis University School of Medi-

sen, Greg Westin).

cine, St. Louisg; and the Evidence-Based Practice Center, Mayo Clinic,


SUMMARY OF THE GUIDELINES
Diagnostic evaluation
Recommendations.
1. In patients with abdominal pain, weight loss, and
food fear, we recommend an expedited workup to
exclude gastrointestinal malignancies and other potential causes. The expedited workup may include
an esophagogastroduodenoscopy, a colonoscopy, an
abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan and an
abdominal ultrasound. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
2. We recommend making a diagnosis of chronic
mesenteric ischemia (CMI) in patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and the presence of signiﬁcant
stenoses (>70%) within the celiac axis and superior
mesenteric artery (SMA). The diagnosis maybe also

made in patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and a signiﬁcant stenosis (>70%) in either the
celiac axis or SMA alone. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend using the mesenteric duplex ultrasound (DUS) examination as the preferred screening
test for mesenteric artery occlusive disease (MAOD).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We recommend using CT arteriography (CTA) as the
preferred deﬁnitive imaging test for MAOD unless unusual anatomic features obscure the anatomy such
that a catheter-based arteriogram may be required.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality
of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Indications for treatment
Recommendations.
1. We recommend revascularization in patients with CMI
to reverse their presenting symptoms (ie, weight loss,
food fear, diarrhea, postprandial pain) and improve
their overall quality of life. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
2. We recommend that total parenteral nutrition is
not an acceptable alternative to revascularization for
patients with CMI owing to the risk of clinical deterioration, bowel infarction, and catheter-related complications. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We suggest that the SMA is the primary target for
revascularization. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We suggest that the celiac axis and inferior mesenteric
artery are secondary targets for revascularization and
that revascularization may aid in symptom relief if the
SMA is not suitable for intervention or the technical
result is not acceptable. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
5. In patients with symptoms consistent with CMI and
occlusive disease isolated to a single mesenteric
vessel, particularly the SMA, we suggest a shared
decision-making approach between the patient and
provider to discuss revascularization as a treatment
option. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD, we
suggest a shared decision-making approach between
the patient and provider to discuss revascularization
as a treatment option. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
7. We recommend that asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD be closely followed for symptoms consistent with CMI. A possible follow-up schedule includes
an annual evaluation with a mesenteric DUS examination. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
8. In patients with severe MAOD involving the SMA undergoing aortic reconstruction, both open and endovascular, we suggest a shared decision-making approach
between the patient and provider to discuss

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

89S

Volume 73, Number 1S

revascularization as a treatment option. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
9. In patients with combined MAOD and mesenteric artery aneurysms, we recommend revascularization at
the time of treatment for their mesenteric artery aneurysms if the repair alone would disrupt the collateral network. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Choice of treatment
Recommendations.
1. The choice of treatment for patients with CMI should
be a shared decision-making process between the
patient and provider considering the risks/beneﬁts of
the various options and the patient’s goals of care.
(Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend endovascular revascularization as
the initial treatment for patients with CMI and suitable lesions. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend reserving open surgical revascularization for patients with CMI who have lesions that are not
amenable to endovascular therapy, endovascular failures, and a select group of younger, healthier patients
for whom the long-term beneﬁts may offset the
increased perioperative risks. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Preoperative evaluation
Recommendations.
1. Patients undergoing revascularization for CMI should
be optimized from a medical standpoint before intervention, although their preoperative evaluation should
be expedited. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend obtaining a CTA to delineate the
vascular anatomy before any revascularization. A
catheter-based arteriogram may be an alternative if
the anatomy is not clear on the CTA. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Endovascular revascularization
Recommendation.
1. We suggest using balloon-expandable covered intraluminal stents for the treatment of the MAOD in patients with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Open surgical revascularization
Recommendation.
1. The choice of open surgical revascularization for CMI
should be determined by anatomy, comorbidities,
prior interventions, and provider preference. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
Surveillance and remediation
Recommendations.
1. Patients undergoing revascularization for CMI should be
educated and counseled about recurrent symptoms
owing to the high rate of recurrence. (Ungraded Good
Practice Statement)

2. Patients should be followed in the outpatient setting
after revascularization for CMI. A possible follow-up
schedule includes within 1 month of the procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then annually thereafter. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
3. We suggest surveillance with mesenteric DUS examination to identify recurrent stenoses after revascularization for CMI. A possible ultrasound surveillance
schedule includes within 1 month of the procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then
annually. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
4. We recommend performing a CTA or catheter-based
arteriograms to conﬁrm any restenoses detected by
DUS examination in patients with symptoms consistent with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low) (1C)
5. In patients with recurrent symptoms of CMI, we
recommend remedial treatment as recommended
for the de novo lesions. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select patients with asymptomatic recurrent stenosis, we suggest a shared decision-making approach
between the patient and provider to discuss revascularization as recommended for the de novo lesions.
Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low)
7. We suggest that the choice of revascularization for
recurrent stenoses should be similar to the de novo lesions with the endovascular approach recommended
as the initial option and open revascularization
reserved for lesions not amenable to the endovascular
approach. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)

INTRODUCTION
Chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) is caused by the failure to achieve postprandial intestinal blood ﬂow resulting in an imbalance between the supply and demand
for oxygen and other metabolites. This adverse hemodynamic event is typically caused by atherosclerotic occlusive disease at the oriﬁces of the mesenteric vessels (ie,
celiac artery [CA], superior mesenteric artery [SMA], inferior mesenteric artery [IMA]), although a variety of other
etiologies have been incriminated. The presence of
mesenteric artery occlusive disease (MAOD) is a relatively
common ﬁnding in the elderly population, particularly in
those with evidence of occlusive disease in other vascular
beds. In a prospective study of more than 500 patients,
Wilson et al1 reported that 17% of elderly adults had evidence of signiﬁcant occlusive disease in the CA or SMA.
Furthermore, more than 25% of patients undergoing a
catheter-based arteriogram for lower extremity occlusive
disease were found to have a greater than 50% stenosis
in either artery.2,3 Despite the high prevalence of
MAOD, CMI is signiﬁcantly less common given the extensive collateral network and redundancy in the mesenteric circulation. It is generally accepted that symptoms

90S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

January Supplement 2021

do not occur unless at least two of the mesenteric vessels
are involved although symptoms can develop in patients
with single-vessel disease, particularly the SMA.4-7 The
diagnosis of CMI requires the appropriate clinical symptoms, the presence of MAOD, and the exclusion of other
potential causes of postprandial abdominal pain. Deﬁnitive treatment with mesenteric revascularization is
required with the treatment goals of reversing the symptoms, facilitating weight gain, improving the overall quality of life, and preventing bowel infarction.
Both the diagnostic imaging and deﬁnitive treatment
for CMI have evolved over the past 2 decades, paralleling
the larger discipline of vascular surgery, with an increased
emphasis on triphasic multidetector CT arteriography
(CTA) and percutaneous endovascular treatment. CTA is
currently recommended as the ﬁrst-line imaging study
for mesenteric ischemia (both acute and chronic) by the
American College of Radiology Appropriateness criteria
and has largely replaced catheter-based arteriography as
the gold standard for diagnosis.8 It affords the ability to
assess the bowel and other intra-abdominal abdominal
organs as a potential cause of the abdominal pain, in
addition to providing a more comprehensive view of the
extent and distribution of the MAOD and collateral networks. Endovascular treatment with angioplasty and
intraluminal stents has largely replaced open surgical
bypass as the ﬁrst treatment option for mesenteric revascularization. Notably, the number of endovascular procedures for mesenteric ischemia has increased 10-fold over
the past decade and now accounts for more than 70%
of the initial revascularization procedures.6,9,10 This evolution from open to endovascular revascularization has
been justiﬁed by the consistent themes for all endovascular procedures, including excellent technical success and
decreased perioperative complication rates, despite concerns about decreased patency rates and an increased
rate of recurrent symptoms.
The evidence supporting the diagnosis and treatment
for CMI has been somewhat limited, despite the dramatic evolution in the care paradigms over the past decades. The supporting evidence is largely retrospective,
single-center reports with heterogeneous patient populations in terms of comorbidities, distribution of occlusive
disease, acuity of symptoms, and type of revascularization. The limitation of the evidence is compounded by
the lack of widely accepted reporting standards and
the relative low prevalence of the disease process.
These clinical practice guidelines were developed by
the committee under the guidance of the Society for
Vascular Surgery to facilitate evidence-based clinical decision making for patients with CMI. They were limited to
patients with CMI related to atherosclerotic occlusive disease. CMI was deﬁned as ischemic symptoms caused by
insufﬁcient intestinal blood ﬂow to the gastrointestinal
tract for a duration of 3 months as deﬁned by the European Society of Vascular Surgery Guidelines.11 The

current guidelines do not address the management of
acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) or nonatherosclerotic
causes (eg, median arcuate ligament syndrome, SMA
dissection) potentially contributing to the development
of CMI. Although the goal of the guidelines was to provide the best possible evidence, there are multiple gaps
in our overall understanding and it is anticipated that
future studies will likely impact the speciﬁc recommendations. Furthermore, the guidelines provide a generic
approach to patients with CMI and may not be appropriate for every clinical scenario, thereby emphasizing
the importance of a patient-speciﬁc approach.

METHODS
The Society for Vascular Surgery selected a committee
consisting of vascular surgeons with an expertise in
CMI. A guideline methodologist, a librarian, and a team
of investigators with expertise in conducting systematic
reviews and meta-analyses assisted the committee. The
committee communicated in person and remotely. Speciﬁc questions were grouped into six areas of focus (diagnostic evaluation, indications for treatment, choice of
treatment, perioperative evaluation, endovascular/open
revascularization, and surveillance/remediation) and subgroups of the committee were assigned to the focus
areas. A formal systematic review and meta-analysis
comparing open and endovascular revascularization for
CMI was performed by the Evidence-Based Practice Center at the Mayo Clinic.12 The evidence in the other areas
was summarized and recommendations determined
by a consensus of the committee members.
The committee used the GRADE approach (Grades of
Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation) to rate the quality of evidence (conﬁdence in the estimates) and grade the strength of recommendations.13,14
This system categorizes recommendations as strong
GRADE 1 or conditional GRADE 2, based on the certainty
of evidence, the balance between desirable/undesirable effects, patient values/preferences, and resource use. GRADE
1 recommendations are meant to identify practices where
beneﬁt clearly outweighs risk. These recommendations
can be made by clinicians and accepted by patients with
a high degree of conﬁdence. GRADE 2 recommendations
are provided when the beneﬁts and risks are more closely
matched and are more dependent on speciﬁc clinical scenarios. In general, physician and patient preferences play a
more important role in the decision-making process in
these latter circumstances. The committee denoted strong
and conditional recommendations by stating “recommend” and “suggest,” respectively. The certainty of evidence
to support the recommendation in either GRADE is divided
into three categories: A (high certainty), B (moderate certainty), and C (low or very low certainty). Conclusions based
on high-certainty evidence are unlikely to change with
further investigation, whereas those based on moderatecertainty evidence are more likely to be affected by further

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

91S

Volume 73, Number 1S

scrutiny. Those based on low-certainty evidence are the
least supported by current data and the most likely to be
subject to change in the future. The committee also
made some statements that were labeled as ungraded
good practice statements.15 These statements did not
have direct supporting evidence, but had ample indirect
evidence and would be considered by many surgeons as
surgical principles.
Diagnostic evaluation
Recommendations.
1. In patients with abdominal pain, weight loss, and
food fear, we recommend an expedited workup to
exclude gastrointestinal malignancies and other potential causes. The expedited workup may include
an esophagogastroduodenoscopy, a colonoscopy, an
abdominal CT scan, and an abdominal ultrasound examination. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
2. We recommend making a diagnosis of CMI in patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and the
presence of signiﬁcant stenoses (>70%) within the celiac axis and SMA. The diagnosis maybe also made in
patients with the appropriate clinical scenario and a
signiﬁcant stenosis (>70%) in either the celiac axis or
SMA alone. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend using the mesenteric duplex ultrasound (DUS) examination as the preferred screening
test for MAOD. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We recommend using CTA as the preferred deﬁnitive
imaging test for MAOD unless unusual anatomic features obscure the anatomy such that a catheterbased arteriogram may be required. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate) (1B)
Rationale and background
CMI is caused by the failure to achieve adequate postprandial intestinal blood ﬂow. This condition usually results
from the presence of atherosclerotic occlusive disease at
the origin of the mesenteric arteries and is associated
with the typical atherosclerotic risk factors. There is a
tremendous amount of redundancy in the mesenteric circulation, and, accordingly, the symptoms of CMI do not
typically develop unless both the CA and SMA have hemodynamically signiﬁcant lesions (>70%). However, it is
possible to have symptoms consistent with CMI and disease isolated to a single mesenteric vessel, typically the
SMA. MAOD, in contradistinction to CMI, is relatively common and affects a large percentage of patients with peripheral vascular and aneurysmal disease. Patients with CMI
typically present with postprandial abdominal pain, weight
loss, and food fear. The differential diagnosis for this clinical
presentation is quite extensive and includes gastrointestinal malignancies ﬁrst and foremost. Accordingly, the diagnostic workup should exclude other gastrointestinal causes

and potentially include an esophagogastroduodenoscopy,
colonoscopy, abdominal ultrasound examination, and
abdominal CT scan. The diagnosis of CMI requires the
appropriate clinical presentation and the presence of signiﬁcant MAOD. Neither physical examination nor routine
laboratory studies are particularly helpful and, unfortunately, there is no well-accepted functional test that is sufﬁciently sensitive or speciﬁc. Mesenteric DUS examination
is an excellent screening test for MAOD, and CTA is the
deﬁnitive imaging test and has largely replaced catheterbased arteriography.
Detailed justiﬁcation
The blood ﬂow to the gastrointestinal tract is provided
via the CA, SMA, and IMA with collateral contributions
via the internal iliac artery, most notably the hemorrhoidal arteries. The gastroduodenal and pancreaticoduodenal arteries provide connections between the CA and
SMA. The marginal artery of Drummond and the arc of
Riolan (meandering or central anastomotic artery lying
in the mesentery close to the inferior mesenteric vein)
connect the inferior mesenteric (via the left colic artery)
to the superior mesenteric (via the middle colic artery).16
The disruption of these collateral networks, for whatever
reason (eg, IMA ligation during exposure of the infrarenal
aorta), can lead to AMI and CMI in patients with MAOD.
Because of this well-developed network of collaterals,
most patients usually do not develop symptoms of CMI
or AMI unless there is a signiﬁcant stenosis or occlusion
in at least two of the mesenteric vessels (ie, CA, SMA,
and/or IMA). Notably, Oderich et al6 described the arteriographic ﬁndings of more than 200 patients with CMI
and reported that 98% had signiﬁcant occlusive disease
in two of the three mesenteric vessels and 92% had an
occlusion or critical stenosis in the SMA. In a longitudinal
study of asymptomatic patients with mesenteric
ischemia, only patients with signiﬁcant occlusive disease
in all three mesenteric vessels eventually developed
symptoms.17 However, signiﬁcant occlusive disease in a
single mesenteric vessel, usually the SMA, can lead to
CMI if the collateral network is inadequate.4-6 Unfortunately, there is not a direct association between the
number of mesenteric vessels involved and the presence
of symptoms, thereby confounding the diagnosis and
underscoring the difference between MAOD and CMI.
During the fasting state, 20% of the cardiac output
courses through the mesenteric arteries.18 The gastrointestinal blood ﬂow increases after a meal, achieving
levels that exceed the fasting values by 100% to 150%
over the ensuing 3 to 6 hours.19 This hyperemic response
starts with the anticipation of the meal, but the major
hemodynamic effects become most evident after ingestion and movement of the food bolus into the small
bowel. The vasodilation of the mesenteric vessels begins
3 to 5 minutes after ingestion and persists for 4 to 6 hours
depending on the meal composition with the maximal

92S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

January Supplement 2021

Table I. Characteristics of patients included in meta-analysis (comparative and noncomparative studies)
Endovascular group

Open surgery group

Overall

10,679

8047

18,726

69.91 (18-97)

67.83 (9-99)

68.70 (9-99)

27.95

36.73

28.22

Smoking

57.65

77.27

65.95

Diabetes

19.41

17.34

18.70

Hypertension

63.81

63.62

63.67

Coronary artery disease

38.91

34.21

37.58

Peripheral artery disease

56.11

49.79

54.40

Chronic renal insufﬁciency

5.16

9.03

6.66

Hyperlipidemia

48.62

31.96

41

Abdominal pain

89.49

87.05

88.17

Weight loss

70.65

78.55

74.48

Diarrhea

30.97

40.77

35.89

No.
Age, mean (range), years
Male (%)
Risk factors

Presenting symptoms

Data are presented as percentage unless otherwise indicated.

response occurring within 30 to 90 minutes.20 The majority of the increased blood ﬂow is via the SMA as reﬂected by the marked increased end-diastolic velocity
(EDV) noted on DUS imaging during a meal challenge.21
Within the bowel wall itself, the quantity of blood ﬂow is
greater in the mucosa than the submucosa or muscularis, thereby making the mucosa layer more susceptible to
an ischemic insult.22 In patients with CMI, the postprandial hyperemic response is blunted or decreased owing
to the occluded or stenotic mesenteric vessels. This can
result in a mismatch between the supply and demand
for oxygen and other metabolites, leading to pain
(visceral nerves), malabsorption (intestinal mucosa), and
bowel emptying (peristalsis), the cardinal symptoms of
CMI.23-25
The overwhelming majority of patients with CMI have
atherosclerotic occlusive disease as the underlying etiology. The occlusive disease usually affects the oriﬁce and
ﬁrst few centimeters of the mesenteric vessels with relative sparing of the distal segment, and this oriﬁcal process is usually associated with plaque within the aorta.4
The MAOD is a manifestation of a systemic process and
patients typically present with the standard atherosclerotic risk factors and involvement in the other vascular
beds. The breakdown of the cardiovascular risk factors
and comorbidities among patients undergoing revascularization identiﬁed in the accompanying meta-analysis
is shown in Table I.12 Notably, the mean patient age
among all patients was 68.7 years and the majority
were smokers, hypertensive, and had evidence of peripheral artery disease. Unlike most other cardiovascular disorders associated with atherosclerotic occlusive disease,
the majority of patients with CMI are women. There is a

small percentage of patients that present in the third
to fourth decades of life and may have a different female
to male sex ratio (eg, 1:1 for coarctation and 5:1 for vasculitis). Furthermore, they do not have the usual atherosclerotic risk factors and associated systemic vascular
disease.26-29 However, these guidelines are restricted to
patients with CMI from atherosclerotic occlusive disease,
as noted elsewhere in these guidelines.
The presence of MAOD, in contradistinction to CMI, is
quite common. As noted, Wilson et al1 reported that
17% of independent, elderly adults (n ¼ 553) had evidence of signiﬁcant occlusive disease in the CA or SMA
on routine mesenteric DUS screening. However, there
were no deaths attributable to mesenteric infarction at
follow-up (mean, 6.5 years) in this population and none
of the surveyed survivors (71%) reported symptoms
consistent with CMI. Unselected autopsy studies have reported the presence of a stenosis of 50% or more in at
least one of the mesenteric vessels in up to 10% of
patients and almost 30% of patients undergoing
catheter-based arteriography before peripheral artery
revascularization had evidence of a comparable degree
of stenosis in either the CA or SMA.2,3 A recent report
from Zettervall et al30 examining the national trends in
mortality for both CMI and AMI from the Nationwide
Inpatient Sample and Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention database reported that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of endovascular procedures for both conditions. This ﬁnding was associated
with a decrease in the population mortality for AMI but
no change for CMI, suggesting that the widespread
adoption of the endovascular approach was responsible
for the improved mortality trend for AMI. Notably, they

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

93S

Volume 73, Number 1S

identiﬁed only 14,810 revascularizations for CMI over a 13year period (2000-2012) and this corresponded to
roughly 800 endovascular and 400 open revascularizations per year.
The diagnosis of CMI requires the appropriate clinical
presentation along with the presence of hemodynamically signiﬁcant MAOD. The classic symptoms of CMI
include postprandial abdominal pain, weight loss, and
food fear. However, it is important to note that this triad
is not always present, even at the time of revascularization, and patients can present with nonspeciﬁc intestinal
complaints, including abdominal discomfort, nausea/
vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation.6,31-34 The abdominal pain is described as mid-abdominal, crampy, or
dull. It usually occurs within 30 minutes after eating
and can persist for up to 6 hours as suggested by the
time course of postprandial hemodynamic changes outlined elsewhere in this article. Certain foods may exacerbate the symptoms, and, accordingly, patients tend to
avoid these foods by altering their eating habits.
The postprandial pain can lead to a decrease in oral
intake and food fear with the end results that patients
lose weight and can even become cachectic in the
more extreme scenarios. In one series of patients undergoing mesenteric revascularization, abdominal pain was
present in 96%, occurring after eating in only 74%,
whereas weight loss occurred in 84% and food fear in
45%.6 Notably, there was a delay of 15 months from the
onset of symptoms to the deﬁnitive diagnosis in this series. In another series from Europe, the typical postprandial abdominal pain was present in 85%, weight loss in
77%, and food fear in 63%, whereas diarrhea, nausea, or
vomiting were noted in 56%.35 Allain et al36 examined
the impact of malnutrition on outcome after revascularization for CMI (n ¼ 54) using body mass index, percentage of
weight loss and serum albumin. They found that 70% of
the patients undergoing revascularization were malnourished and that it was associated with increased perioperative mortality and decreased longer term survival.
Interestingly, not all patients are cachectic or malnourished
at the time of presentation. Mansukhani et al37 reported
that 35% of the patients in their recent series undergoing
revascularization for CMI were overweight or obese with
a body mass index of greater than 25, a trend that they
attributed to the obesity epidemic across the country.
The common delays in diagnosis can often be explained
by inconsistencies in the patient’s symptoms, the extensive differential for chronic abdominal pain with weight
loss, and the low prevalence of CMI in the population.
These delays are usually attributed to the extensive diagnostic workups performed by the responsible primary
care physician or gastroenterologist, before referral to
the vascular specialist. In practice, many of the patients
have completed their extensive evaluation and are
referred to the specialist with a tentative diagnosis of
CMI. Regardless of the explanations for the diagnostic

delay, an expeditious diagnosis can lead to timely treatment and avoid the sequelae of CMI, as well as the nutritional deﬁciencies that may affect the perioperative
course.
Although patients with CMI present with abdominal
pain and weight loss, the differential diagnosis for this
presentation is quite extensive, with gastrointestinal malignancy being foremost among the potential causes.
Unfortunately, there are no speciﬁc physical examination
ﬁndings or laboratory studies to aid in the diagnosis.
Endoscopy is an integral part of the diagnostic algorithm
for abdominal pain and weight loss and, therefore, is
often completed before considering CMI in the differential. Both esophagogastroduodenoscopy and a colonoscopy should likely be performed as a part of the
diagnostic workup to exclude a malignancy, unless the
diagnosis of CMI is clear. Although the ﬁndings of
ischemic gastritis, duodenitis, and colitis are somewhat
nonspeciﬁc, they can be suggestive of CMI.38,39 Notably,
the presence of a gastric ulcer in the absence of a malignancy is highly suggestive of CMI.40-42 A variety of adjunct
functional studies have been described to aid in the
diagnosis of CMI, including oxygen light spectroscopy43,44 and intestinal tonometry,45 although their collective experience is limited and they have not
achieved clinical usefulness. It is conceivable that the
widespread availability of CT imaging may help to identify the culprit mesenteric stenoses sooner and expedite
the diagnosis of CMI when compared with historic series
when catheter-based arteriography was the primary
diagnostic imaging modality.
Because there is no reliable functional test for the diagnosis of CMI, the diagnosis must rely on the appropriate
clinical scenario and the presence of MAOD. Harki et al46
have attempted to develop a predictive model based on
the clinical presentation and anatomic ﬁndings to increase the diagnostic accuracy. They identiﬁed female
sex, weight loss, presence of cardiovascular disease, duration of symptoms, and the presence of SMA/CA stenosis
as diagnostic predictors. Van Dijk et al47 have recently
prospectively validated the predictive model (n ¼ 666)
and found that it discriminated well with the addition
of a predictor for the cause of the CA stenosis. Notably,
94% of the high-risk patients had CMI based on durable
symptom relief after revascularization, although the
diagnosis was conﬁrmed in only 8% of the low-risk
patients.
Mesenteric DUS examination is an excellent screening
tool for patients suspected of having CMI.48 Although
the test is technically demanding and requires an
advanced skill set, it can yield consistent, reproducible results in experienced hands. Patients are routinely fasted
for 6 to 8 hours to minimize the amount of bowel gas.
Nevertheless, obesity can complicate the examination
owing to the depth of the vessels. Comparison of mesenteric DUS ﬁndings with catheter-based arteriography

94S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

demonstrated that the CA and SMA were visualized 83%
and 93%, respectively, with ultrasound examination and
virtually 100% of the time with arteriography.49 The common DUS criteria for a SMA stenosis of 70% or greater is a
peak systolic velocity (PSV) of 275 cm/s or more, whereas
200 cm/s or more indicates a similar stenosis of the CA
with no ﬂow in either vessel consistent with an occlusion.
These criteria for the SMA were associated with a sensitivity of 92%, speciﬁcity of 96%, positive predictive value
(PPV) of 80%, and negative predictive value (NPV) of
99% with an overall accuracy of 96%.49,50 Importantly, a
negative study essentially rules out a signiﬁcant stenosis
of the SMA. These peak systolic criteria for the CA are
associated with a sensitivity of 87%, speciﬁcity of 80%,
NPV of 63%, PPV of 94%, and an overall accuracy of
82%. Alternatively, an EDV of 45 cm/s or more corresponded with a 50% or greater stenosis of the SMA
with a 90% sensitivity, 91% speciﬁcity, 90% PPV, 91%
NPV, and 91% accuracy.51 An EDV of greater than
55 cm/s in the CA corresponded with a 50% or greater
stenosis with an accuracy of 95%, sensitivity of 93%, and
speciﬁcity of 94%; reversal of ﬂow in the hepatic arteries
was predictive of a proximal CA stenosis or occlusion.51
The use of postprandial DUS imaging has not been
shown to improve the overall accuracy for the evaluation
of either SMA or CA stenoses.21,52
The reported DUS criteria used to determine the degree of stenosis in the SMA and CA may vary by vascular
laboratory and the speciﬁc imaging equipment, underscoring the importance of local validation. In a more
recent study by AbuRahma and colleagues,53 the most
accurate determination of a 50% or greater SMA stenosis
was a fasting PSV of 295 or higher (accuracy 88%, NPV
84%, PPV 91%) and for a 70% or greater stenosis, it was
400 cm/s or more (accuracy 85%, NPV 85%, PPV 84%).
For the CA, a 50% or greater stenosis correlated with a
PSV of 240 cm/s or higher (accuracy 86%) and a 70%
or greater stenosis with a PSV of 320 cm/s or more (accuracy 85%). The DUS velocities used to determine the degree of stenosis can also be affected by the presence of
collaterals and by respiration.54,55 An extensive collateral
network, as often seen in the presence of an SMA or CA
occlusion, can lead to increased ﬂow velocities in the
other, unaffected mesenteric vessels, suggesting a significant stenosis when one is not actually present.54 Similarly, signiﬁcantly high peak systolic and diastolic
velocities were found during expiration (vs inspiration),
thus, potentially impacting the accurate assessment of
the degree of stenosis.55
The IMA can serve as an important collateral when the
other mesenteric vessels have signiﬁcant occlusive disease. Unfortunately, the published experience with DUS
for the IMA is fairly limited. One study comparing DUS
imaging with angiography demonstrated that a greater
than 50% stenosis of the IMA was associated with a
greater than 250 cm/s PSV with an accuracy of 95%,

whereas an IMA to aortic PSV ratio of greater than 4.0
had an accuracy of 93%.56 A second study used greater
than 200 cm/s as the criteria for a greater than 50% stenosis, but the sample size in the study was small and
there were only nine vessels that were adequately
imaged.57 Unfortunately, there are no prospective
studies examining the DUS criteria for as signiﬁcant
IMA stenosis.
Although mesenteric artery DUS is a rapid, noninvasive screening study that can often conﬁrm or refute
the presence of arterial occlusive disease, additional
imaging is required to conﬁrm the presence of
MAOD and to deﬁne the precise location and extent
of disease for operative planning. CTA provides
anatomic clarity and can exclude other potential
causes of chronic abdominal pain.6,9,58,59 The technique
employs three-dimensional multiplane reformatting
along with centerline measurements. The diagnostic
accuracy for patients with CMI has been reported to
range from 95% to 100%59 and it is recommended as
the ﬁrst-line study by the American College of Radiologists Appropriateness Criteria as well as the European
Society of Vascular Surgery Mesenteric Guidelines.8,11 A
recent prospective study compared DUS, CTA, and
mesenteric
resonance
arteriography
(MRA)
to
catheter-based arteriography as the gold standard reported that CTA provided the best image quality, the
highest level of correlation for grading the degree of
stenosis, and was the most accurate.60 Triphasic CTA
provides excellent spatial resolution and image detail
and is considered the best study to deﬁne the
anatomic characteristics of the mesenteric lesions (eg,
lesion length, diameter, presence of thrombus, or calciﬁcation) and the potential inﬂow sites for open revascularization (eg, calciﬁcation of the supraceliac aorta)
that are required for intervention planning. Furthermore, the delayed phase can be helpful to identify
other vascular pathologies, including mesenteric
venous thrombosis. The obvious limitations of CTA
include image artifact from severe calciﬁcation or
metallic devices, the need for iodine-based contrast,
expense, and radiation exposure. CTA is also very helpful to identify other intra-abdominal pathology and is
particularly helpful in the setting of acute or subacute
mesenteric ischemia to assess the appearance of the
bowel wall with the hallmarks of ischemia being bowel
wall thickening, edema, hemorrhage, and/or hyperemia. CTA has been shown to be both sensitive (93%)
and speciﬁc (96%) for detecting bowel infarction and
perforation.61-64 Unfortunately, Karkkainen et al65 reported that only one-third of the patients who presented with AMI and an antecedent history of CMI
(ie, acute on CMI) had evidence of ischemic-speciﬁc
ﬁndings in their bowel on CT scan, and they suggested
that any bowel-related ﬁndings in patients with an
SMA obstruction should be attributed to ischemia.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

95S

Volume 73, Number 1S

CTA has also been shown to be superior to MRA after
endovascular intervention owing to better visualization
of the lumen, higher spatial resolution, and faster
acquisition times.58,66-68
MRA affords many of the same advantages as CTA for
the diagnosis of CMI and should be considered an alternative modality.66,69 Gadolinium-enhanced MRA was
shown to have an overall sensitivity and speciﬁcity of
greater than 95 % when compared with catheterbased arteriography for the detection of signiﬁcant
mesenteric artery stenoses.70 The interobserver variability
was excellent, but the degree of stenosis was consistently
overestimated owing to the lack of submillimeter resolution.70,71 The limitations of MRA include the inability to
scan patients with pacemakers, inability of patients
with claustrophobia to tolerate the closed space, lengthy
examination times, and the inability to assess patients
with mesenteric stents.66 Furthermore, MRA is not as
helpful to characterize the degree of calciﬁcation in the
target vessels or inﬂow arteries for planning revascularization, although it can be supplemented with a noncontrast CT scan. Caution must be used when administering
gadolinium to patients with chronic kidney disease and/
or on dialysis owing to the risk of nephrogenic systemic
ﬁbrosis.72 Furthermore, MR scanners are not as readily
available or widespread as CT scanners and most
vascular specialists feel more comfortable with CTAs.
Catheter-based arteriography has historically been
considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of
MAOD.48 However, owing to the evolution of the other
less invasive imaging modalities outlined elsewhere in
this article and the known complications associated
with the catheter-based procedures (eg, vessel perforation, bleeding, and peripheral emboli),73-75 the use of
catheter-based arteriography as a diagnostic test has
decreased signiﬁcantly.76 However, it can be useful
when the other less invasive imaging modalities are nondiagnostic (eg, extensive vessel calciﬁcation, prior stent,
other metallic artifact) or when percutaneous intervention is planned. Optimal biplane imaging includes
anterior-posterior (renal and aortoiliac), lateral (SMA and
celiac arteries), and right anterior oblique views (IMA)
for optimal visualization of speciﬁc vessels. The anteriorposterior projections are helpful to visualize the branches
of the SMA and its collaterals, including the gastroduodenal and marginal arteries, whereas the lateral projection is optimal to view the origins of the CA and SMA
given their posterior-anterior orientation. Selective cannulation can provide additional visualization of the
mesenteric vessels, including their more distal segments
and any collateral channels. Intraluminal pressure measurements can be made across a stenosis at the time
of arteriography if there is a question regarding the hemodynamic signiﬁcance of the lesion.77 It is worth
emphasizing that the other less invasive imaging studies
(ie, DUS examination, CTA, MRA) cannot provide any

functional or hemodynamic data in terms of pressure
gradients. Concerns have been raised about the impact
of the catheter itself and its contribution to the gradient.
These concerns can be overcome by the use of an intraluminal pressure wire, although it is associated with
additional expense. Alternatively, intravascular ultrasound examinations can be used at the time of the
catheter-based arteriography to calculate the degree of
stenosis in the lesion.78,79 Carbon dioxide has been
used as an alternative contrast agent for patients with
chronic renal insufﬁciency, but it may be contraindicated
for evaluation of the mesenteric vessels in patients with
CMI owing to its potential to cause bowel infarction,
particularly in the case of selective injections.80
Implementation considerations
The diagnosis, treatment, and overall management of
patients with CMI is well-known to most vascular care
providers. Indeed, the diagnostic workup has usually
been completed by the primary care provider and/or
gastroenterologist at the time of referral. The excessive
diagnostic delays from onset of symptoms to deﬁnitive
diagnosis and referral for revascularization are due to
the low prevalence of the disease, the unfamiliarity of
most primary care providers, and the extensive differential diagnosis. Accordingly, it is incumbent upon vascular
care providers to help educate primary care providers to
reduce the diagnostic delay and expedite treatment. CT
scans are universally available and provide the best
chance for early diagnosis in the patient with abdominal
pain and weight loss. Appreciation of the presence of
MAOD in this setting and the potential for CMI may expedite deﬁnitive care.
Future research
Development of reporting standards for patients with
CMI
d Development of a standard diagnostic algorithm for
CMI
d Development of a functional test for CMI
d

Indications for treatment
Recommendations.
1. We recommend revascularization in patients with
CMI to reverse their presenting symptoms (ie, weight
loss, food fear, diarrhea, postprandial pain) and
improve their overall quality of life. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A
(High)
2. We recommend that total parenteral nutrition is not
an acceptable alternative to revascularization for patients with CMI owing to the risk of clinical deterioration,
bowel
infarction
and
catheter-related
complications. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)

96S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

3. We suggest that the SMA is the primary target for
revascularization. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
4. We suggest that the celiac axis and IMA are secondary
targets for revascularization and that revascularization
may aid in symptom relief if the SMA is not suitable
for intervention or the technical result is not acceptable. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
5. In patients with symptoms consistent with CMI and
occlusive disease isolated to a single mesenteric
vessel, particularly the SMA, we suggest a shared
decision-making approach between the patient and
provider to discuss revascularization as a treatment
option. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD,
we suggest a shared decision-making approach between the patient and provider to discuss revascularization
as
a
treatment
option.
Level
of
recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
7. We recommend that asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD be closely followed for symptoms consistent with CMI. A possible follow-up schedule includes
an annual evaluation with a mesenteric DUS. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
8. In patients with severe MAOD involving the SMA undergoing aortic reconstruction, both open and endovascular, we suggest a shared decision-making
approach between the patient and provider to
discuss revascularization as a treatment option. Level
of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
9. In patients with combined MAOD and mesenteric artery aneurysms, we recommend revascularization at
the time of treatment for their mesenteric artery aneurysms if the repair alone would disrupt the collateral network. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)

Rationale and background
Treatment goals for patients with CMI are to reverse the
symptoms, facilitate weight gain, prevent the development of AMI, and improve the patient’s overall quality
of life. The optimal treatment represents a balance between the natural history of the underlying disease process and the risks associated with the speciﬁc
treatment. Unfortunately, the natural history of both
CMI and MAOD remain poorly deﬁned, although the potential adverse sequelae are well-known. Accordingly,
patients with CMI require revascularization to optimize
mesenteric perfusion. There is essentially no role for prolonged total parenteral nutrition given the associated
risks and prolonged attempts to optimize the nutritional
status before revascularization may be harmful. The SMA
is the optimal target for revascularization and

revascularization of the SMA alone is usually sufﬁcient
given the extensive mesenteric collateral network. Revascularization of the CA or IMA alone should likely be
reserved for scenarios when revascularization of the
SMA is inadequate or not feasible. It is possible for patients to develop symptoms consistent with CMI with
occlusive disease isolated to the SMA despite the traditional teaching that it requires involvement of at least
two mesenteric vessels. Revascularization is indicated in
this scenario given the potential adverse sequelae and
the resolution of symptoms can actually serve as a diagnostic tool for CMI in patients with equivocal symptoms.
Similarly, even though the natural history of MAOD can
be benign, there is a subset of patients that may beneﬁt
from revascularization given the potential for adverse
sequelae, including those undergoing aortic reconstruction (both open and endovascular), those with involvement of all three of the mesenteric vessels, and those
undergoing treatment for mesenteric artery aneurysms
in which treatment would disrupt the collateral vessels.
Detailed justiﬁcation
Treatment goals for patients with CMI are to reverse the
symptoms, facilitate weight gain, prevent the development of AMI, and improve the patient’s overall quality
of life. Similar to most medical and surgical therapies,
the treatment algorithm represents a balance between
the natural history of the disease process and the risks/
beneﬁts associated with treatment. Unfortunately, the
natural history of CMI is not well-deﬁned, given the lack
of randomized, controlled trials and the presence of a
true noninterventional control group in the observational
studies. Furthermore, it would seem unethical to propose a clinical trial with a noninterventional group given
the sequelae of AMI, including death. The natural history
of CMI has largely been deﬁned by the clinical course of
patients before intervention as reﬂected by the duration
of symptoms or the development of AMI. Admittedly,
there is a tremendous amount of selection bias in these
studies. Untreated patients with CMI can clearly waste
away from inanition and/or progress to AMI, and it has
been reported that the 5-year mortality rate for untreated patients approaches 100%.81 Furthermore, up to
50% of patients with AMI present with thrombosis of
an existing lesion and antecedent symptoms consistent
with CMI.82 In contrast, revascularization, either open or
endovascular, has been associated with excellent results
in terms of both symptomatic relief and long-term
graft or mesenteric vessel patency.31,35,83,84 Notably,
Blauw et al85 surveyed patients before and after revascularization for CMI using the Euroqol-5D survey tool and
reported that revascularization was associated with an
overall improvement in quality of life with improvement
within the activities and pain/discomfort domains.
There may be a role for noninterventional treatment for
patients with CMI, although this role may be more

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

97S

Volume 73, Number 1S

theoretical or simply a short-term bridge before revascularization. Small, more frequent meals or complete
cessation of enteral feeding can decrease the metabolic
demand of the gut and alleviate symptoms, and parenteral nutrition can fulﬁll the nutritional requirements.
However, the role for prolonged total parenteral nutrition
is limited given the catheter-related risks and the potential for clinical deterioration with bowel infarction.17,86
Interestingly, Baxter et al87 examined the quality of life
for patients on home parenteral nutrition and found
that it was worse in patients with mesenteric ischemia
than in those with Crohn’s disease. The published experience using parenteral nutrition as short-term bridge to
revascularization for patients with CMI is fairly limited,
although data extrapolated for the use of total parenteral
nutrition for severely malnourished patients before
nonvascular surgical procedures suggests that it decreases major morbidity without reducing the infectious
complications.88-90 Furthermore, it cannot replace revascularization as noted by Rheudasil et al,86 who reported
two patients who developed fatal bowel necrosis while
on parenteral nutrition awaiting open revascularization.
Palliative care and hospice are both reasonable alternatives for patients with CMI who are not candidates for
revascularization owing to their advanced comorbidities
and/or personal preference.
The SMA is the most important of the three mesenteric
vessels given the extent of its distribution to the bowel
and is the primary target for revascularization. The crucial
role of the SMA is indirectly supported by the overall better symptomatic relief noted when the SMA is revascularized, regardless of what other combination of vessels are
treated or whether performed by an open or endovascular approach. Notably, Goldman et al91 compared the
outcomes associated with the endovascular treatment
of CA alone vs SMA alone or the latter in combination
with the CA. They found that the treatment of the CA
alone was associated with the highest rate of symptomatic recurrence and concluded that the SMA was the key
determinant of successful revascularization.
Isolated revascularization of the CA or IMA may be justiﬁed in select patients when the SMA is not suitable for
revascularization. The characteristics of the SMA that
affect treatment selection include vessel diameter,
extent of stenosis or occlusion, presence of tandem lesions, degree of calciﬁcation, and the extent of collateralization. Admittedly, most of these concerns are more
relevant for endovascular revascularization, because it is
usually possible to identify a suitable distal target in
either the SMA or CA for open revascularization. Several
recent studies have reported that endovascular revascularization of the SMA is possible for long segment occlusions and/or severe calciﬁcations.33,92,93 Endovascular
revascularization of the CA with an intraluminal stent is
associated with a high risk of restenosis94 and is relatively
contraindicated if there is signiﬁcant compression by the

median arcuate ligament, although it is feasible to
release the median arcuate ligament with either a laparoscopic or open surgical approach. The reported experience with isolated IMA revascularization for the
treatment for CMI is limited to relatively small case series
and the outcomes have been somewhat equivocal.95,96
The isolated endovascular revascularization of the CA or
IMA in the setting of a severely disease SMA may be
considered as a bridge to open bypass or retrograde
SMA stenting.97
There has been a long-standing debate about the number of mesenteric vessels that should be revascularized
in patients with CMI that has persisted since the era
when only open surgical revascularization was an option.
There are some theoretical advantages to revascularizing
both the SMA and CA, but most reports indicate that
treatment of the SMA alone is sufﬁcient.33,94,98 Two
recent retrospective studies from the Massachusetts
General Hospital group and by Silva et al31 have shown
a nonsigniﬁcant trend towards a lower recurrence rate
with
treatment
of
both
vessels.98
However,
94
Malgor et al from the Mayo Clinic reported similar
recurrence rates at 2 years in patients treated with intraluminal stents in the SMA compared with those treated
with stents in both the SMA and CA. It is conceivable
that the lack of signiﬁcant difference in these studies
was due to the small sample size and a type 2 error.
Furthermore, there may have been a selection bias
with stent placement in both the SMA and CA reserved
for patients with a suboptimal results of SMA treatment
alone. Revascularization of both the CA and SMA may
have a role in select patients with severe gastric ischemia
and those without adequate collaterals. However, there
is no proven beneﬁt that revascularizing both vessels provides more durable relief, and the second (or additional)
intervention adds cost and potential risk.
There is likely a role for revascularization in patients
with symptoms consistent with CMI and occlusive disease isolated to single mesenteric vessel, particularly
the SMA. Patients with CMI typically have MAOD
affecting both the CA and the SMA or all three of the
mesenteric vessels as noted, and there has been a classic
teaching that stressed the concept that patients cannot
develop CMI unless at least two of the three mesenteric
vessels are involved given the collateral network and
redundancy in the mesenteric circulation. However, this
teaching point is likely incorrect; it is possible to develop
CMI from isolated mesenteric involvement, usually in the
setting of a poor collateral network between the mesenteric vessels. The common clinical scenario is a patient
with vague abdominal complaints, not necessarily
consistent with CMI, who is found to have signiﬁcant
occlusive disease isolated to the SMA or CA. The treatment decision represents a balance between the natural
history of untreated CMI and the risks/costs associated
with the open or endovascular treatment. Unfortunately,

98S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

there is no functional study to truly conﬁrm or refute the
diagnosis. This small cohort of patients should undergo
the extensive diagnostic evaluation outlined elsewhere
in this article for patients with the more classic symptoms of CMI. Revascularization can serve as both a diagnostic and therapeutic tool in this setting, with the
resolution of symptoms conﬁrming the diagnosis.
Notably, van Dijk et al99,100 published their series (n ¼
59) of patients with symptoms consistent with CMI and
isolated MAOD (CA, 81%; SMA, 19%). They reported that
73% of the patients had sustained relief of their symptoms and that the favorable results were not related to
the location of the lesion (ie, CA vs SMA).
Because the natural history of patients with asymptomatic MAOD remains poorly deﬁned, it is no surprise that
the indications for prophylactic revascularization remain
unresolved. Justiﬁcation for revascularization in this
setting is provided by the fact that a signiﬁcant percentage of patients with MAOD present with symptoms of
AMI from thrombosis of a preexisting lesion rather than
the more typical, protracted symptoms associated
CMI.101,102 Furthermore, patients with MAOD can develop
CMI. Thomas et al17 attempted to retrospectively deﬁne
the natural history of asymptomatic MAOD among a
cohort of 980 consecutive patients undergoing mesenteric arteriography. They reported that signiﬁcant
MAOD (>50% stenosis) was present in 8.3% of the patients (n ¼ 82) with 1.5% of the patients (n ¼ 15) demonstrating stenosis of all three mesenteric vessels. There
were four deaths owing to mesenteric ischemia during
the follow-up period that ranged from 1 to 6 years,with
all of the deaths occurring in patients with signiﬁcant
involvement of all three mesenteric vessels. More impressively, 86% of the patients with involvement of all three
mesenteric vessels developed symptoms consistent
with mesenteric ischemia.
Revascularization may be justiﬁed in a small subset of
asymptomatic patients with severe MAOD involving all
three mesenteric vessels. These patients should be monitored closely and counseled regarding the presence of
symptoms and the importance of seeking medical
care. Accordingly, revascularization may be justiﬁed for
noncompliant patients or those with limited access to
medical care. Revascularization is also likely indicated
in the presence of vague or nonspeciﬁc abdominal pain
given the potential adverse sequelae, including progression to AMI.
The perioperative perturbations associated with any
major surgical procedure, particularly open and endovascular aortic aneurysm repair, can lead to mesenteric
ischemia in patients with signiﬁcant MAOD. This is relevant for open aortic procedures given the physiologic
and hemodynamic changes and the potential disruption
of any collateral networks, particularly the marginal artery that runs at the base of the mesentery adjacent to
the inferior mesenteric vein. Similarly, it is relevant for

endovascular aneurysm repair owing to the obligatory
exclusion of the IMA by the endovascular device and
the frequent need to coil embolize the vessel to prevent
a signiﬁcant type II endoleak. Review of the preoperative
CTA to examine the status of the CA, SMA, IMA, and internal iliac artery should be obligatory before any aortic
reconstruction. This review should include an evaluation
of any collateral vessels between the named mesenteric
vessels, suggesting a hemodynamically signiﬁcant stenosis. Preoperative or concomitant revascularization of the
SMA and/or CA is likely justiﬁed in this setting, although
revascularization represents a balance between the additional morbidity and mortality associated with repair vs
the risk associated with progression to CMI or AMI after
aortic reconstruction. Unfortunately, the role for prophylactic revascularization in this setting remains unresolved. The Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice
guidelines for abdominal aortic aneurysms have recommended (2C) “prophylactic treatment of asymptomatic,
high-grade stenosis of the SMA in the presence of a
meandering mesenteric artery based off a large IMA,
which will be sacriﬁced during the course of treatment”.103 The choice of revascularization included both
endovascular and open approaches, with the former
approach generally favored provided that the lesions
are amenable. A study from the National Inpatient Sample reported that simultaneous renal revascularization at
the time of open infrarenal aneurysm repair was associated with an increased mortality rate and the ﬁndings
are likely applicable to combined mesenteric revascularization.104,105 Single institution series have reported
somewhat equivocal ﬁndings in terms of the increased
morbidity and mortality associated with simultaneous
mesenteric revascularization.7,106,107 Unfortunately, it is
unclear from the nationwide and single institution series
whether the simultaneous mesenteric revascularization
increased or decreased the overall mortality rate for the
underlying condition given the lack of appropriate controls. Patients with CMI who require aortic reconstruction
for either occlusive or aneurysmal disease require
mesenteric revascularization as outlined for patients
with CMI alone. The mesenteric revascularization should
be performed before or simultaneous with the aortic
reconstruction for patients with CMI, as recommended
by the Society for Vascular Surgery’s guidelines for
abdominal aortic aneurysms.103 Notably, they state that
patients with symptomatic disease of the SMA (ie, CMI)
should undergo angioplasty and stenting before open
or endovascular repair (1A), whereas those who are not
amenable to an endovascular approach should undergo
concomitant revascularization at the time of open aneurysm repair (1A).
Aneurysms can develop within the major mesenteric
vessels and their collateral networks. One of the presumed mechanisms is the hemodynamic forces that
result from the increased ﬂow through the collateral

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

99S

Volume 73, Number 1S

vessel as a result of a stenosis or occlusion in the major
vessels (eg, aneurysm in inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery with concomitant CA occlusion).108 Many of these
ﬂow-related aneurysms can be treated with ligation or
coil embolization. However, it is important to detail the
full extent of the mesenteric circulation and the extent
of the contribution of the collateral network before treatment. Revascularization of the CA or SMA may be justiﬁed to preserve the mesenteric perfusion concomitant
with treatment of the aneurysm.109
Implementation considerations
The indications, targets, and goals of treatment for CMI
are relatively well-known to vascular surgeons. However,
vascular care, including endovascular treatment of for
CMI, is provided by a variety of physicians, including primary care providers, gastroenterologists, cardiologists,
and radiologists. It is incumbent upon the vascular surgery community to help educate the other providers
involved in the care of vascular patients regarding the
importance of timely referral, appropriate treatment indications, and targets for revascularization.
Future research
Natural history of CMI
Natural history of MAOD
d Management of MAOD and open aortic reconstruction
d Management
of MAOD and mesenteric artery
aneurysms

longer term morbidity and mortality, along with the rates
of recurrent symptoms and the need for remedial
interventions. Endovascular revascularization is the recommended initial treatment for the overwhelming majority of patients, provided that the lesion is amenable.
The endovascular approach is associated with a lower
perioperative complication rate and shorter inpatient
hospital length of stay, although the rate of recurrent
symptoms and need for reintervention are both higher.
There does not seem to be a difference in the perioperative or longer term mortality rate between the endovascular and open approaches. The evidence supporting
the initial endovascular approach has been consistent
across the literature and includes individual case series,
meta-analyses, national series from administrative databases, decision analyses, and other clinical practice
guidelines. Open surgical revascularization should be
reserved for patients who are not endovascular candidates and those who have failed prior endovascular interventions. Open revascularization may also be
appropriate as the initial procedure for select younger,
healthier patients with longer life expectancies,
assuming that the improved long-term patency offsets
the increased perioperative risks.

d
d

Choice of treatment
Recommendations.
1. The choice of treatment for patients with CMI should
be a shared decision-making process between the
patient and provider considering the risks/beneﬁts of
the various options and the patient’s goals of care.
(Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend endovascular revascularization as
the initial treatment for patients with CMI and suitable lesions. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
3. We recommend reserving open surgical revascularization for patients with CMI who have lesions that
are not amenable to endovascular therapy, endovascular failures, and a select group of younger, healthier
patients in which the long-term beneﬁts may offset
the increased perioperative risks. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Rationale and background
The choice of treatment for patients with CMI should
represent a shared decision-making process between
the patient and vascular care provider that involves a
thorough understanding of the associated risks/beneﬁts
of any intervention and incorporates the individual patient’s goals of care, including quality of life. The important outcome measures include both perioperative and

Detailed justiﬁcation
A systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature
was performed as a component of these guidelines to
determine the optimal revascularization strategy (ie,
open vs endovascular) for patients with CMI.12 A total of
100 observational studies (22 comparative, 78 noncomparative) were identiﬁed that encompassed almost
19,000 patients. The perioperative complication rate
was found to be increased in the open group (relative
risk [RR], 2.19; 95% conﬁdence interval [CI], 1.84-2.60;
Fig 1), although there was no signiﬁcant increase in the
30-day mortality rate (5.5% vs 1.4%; RR, 1.57; 95% CI,
0.84-2.93; Fig 2). Open revascularization was associated
with a lower risk of 3-year recurrence (RR, 0.47; 95% CI,
0.34-0.66; Fig 3), but there was no signiﬁcant difference
in the 3-year survival rate between the groups (RR, 0.96;
95% CI, 0.86-1.07; Fig 4). Based on these observational
studies, it was concluded that the endovascular
approach may offer better early outcomes, although
the effect may not be as durable even though the
long-term survival rates seem to be similar with appropriate reintervention when needed. Unfortunately, the
overall quality of the evidence was deemed to be low.
The ﬁndings from our meta-analysis are largely consistent with several other comparable reviews examining
the optimal revascularization strategy for patients with
CMI (Table II). Saedon et al110 (12 studies and 7365 patients) reported no differences in perioperative
morbidity, perioperative mortality or survival, but a
marked increase in patency (odds ratio [OR], 3.57; 95%
CI, 1.83-6.97; P ¼ .0002) in the open group. Cai et al111

100S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

Fig 1. In-hospital complications among patients with chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) who had undergone
endovascular (Ev) revascularization vs those who had undergone open surgery. CI, Conﬁdence interval; RR, relative
risk.

Fig 2. The 30-day mortality among patients with chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) who had undergone
endovascular revascularization vs those who had undergone open surgery. CI, Conﬁdence interval; RR, relative risk.

(8 studies and 569 patients) reported no difference in
perioperative mortality or survival between the groups,
but a lower perioperative complication and higher recurrence rate in the endovascular group. Gupta et al113 (1939
patients) reported that the open repair was associated
with a higher perioperative complication rate, higher
5-year primary patency (OR, 3.8; 95% CI, 2.4-5.8;
P < .001) and higher 5-year freedom from recurrent
symptoms (OR, 4.4; 95% CI, 2.8-7.0; P < .001) despite no
difference in perioperative mortality or survival. Last,
Pecoraro et al112 (43 studies and 1795 patients) reported
lower perioperative morbidity and mortality in the endovascular group despite lower patency rates and no difference in survival. The similarity between the ﬁndings

among the various meta-analyses is not particularly surprising given the signiﬁcant overlap among the studies
that comprised the reviews. However, it is worth emphasizing that the meta-analysis that accompanied the
guidelines represents the most comprehensive and
extensive review in the literature and any discrepancy
with the other reviews is likely due to their small sample
size and the earlier dates of publication, before the widespread adoption of the endovascular approach.
The results of several recent clinical series comparing
the outcome of patients with CMI underscore the ﬁndings of the meta-analyses, but provide more granular information. Lejay et al35 reported their outcomes for open
revascularization during the endovascular era with a

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

101S

Volume 73, Number 1S

Fig 3. The 3-year recurrence rates of symptoms among patients with chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) who had
undergone endovascular (Ev) revascularization vs those who had undergone open surgery. CI, Conﬁdence interval;
RR, relative risk.

Fig 4. The 3-year survival among patients with chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) who had undergone endovascular (Ev) revascularization vs those who had undergone open surgery. CI, Conﬁdence interval; RR, relative risk.

perioperative morbidity and mortality rate of 13.9%
and 3.5%, respectively, and a 10-year survival and primary
patency rate of 88% and 84%, respectively. Oderich et al6
compared the outcomes of 229 consecutive patients undergoing revascularization for CMI (open, 146; endovascular, 83) and reported that the perioperative morbidity
(36% vs 18%; P ¼ .001) and hospital length of stay (12 6
8 days vs 3 6 5 days; P ¼ .001) were higher for the open
group, although there was no difference in perioperative
mortality (open, 2.7% vs endovascular, 2.4%). The 5-year
survival (72 6 5% vs 55 6 9%; P < .0001), freedom from
recurrent symptoms (89 6 4% vs 51 6 9%), and primary
patency rates (88 6 2% vs 41 6 9%) were all higher in
the open group. Similarly, Zacharias et al114 compared
their outcomes after open (n ¼ 45) and endovascular
(n ¼ 116) repair and reported that the hospital length of

stay (5 6 8 days vs 23 6 20 days; P < .001) was lower in
the endovascular group, but there was no difference in
the perioperative mortality rate (endovascular, 5.2% vs
open, 11%). The 3-year primary patency rates were higher
in the open group (91% vs 74%; P ¼ .18), although the survival was lower (78% vs 95%; P ¼ .003). These ﬁndings are
underscored by the fact that there has been a shift in the
patient cohort undergoing open revascularization since
the introduction of the endovascular therapies, reﬂected
by the presence of more extensive MAOD and more
advanced comorbidities.76
The results of the meta-analyses are largely consistent
with the statewide and national observations.
Indes et al115 examined the outcome of patients undergoing revascularization for CMI (n ¼ 666; open, 280;
endovascular, 347) in the state of New York from 2000

102S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

January Supplement 2021

Table II. Systematic reviews for endovascular vs open revascularization for chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI)
Study

Sample

Findings

Alahdab, 201812

100 studies, 18,726 patients

Endovascular with lower perioperative complications, higher
recurrence, comparable perioperative and 3-year survival

Saedon, 2015110

12 studies, 7365 patients

No difference in morbidity and mortality, patency rates lower with
endovascular

Cai, 2015111

8 studies, 569 patients

Endovascular with lower perioperative complications but higher
recurrence, no difference in perioperative or longer term survival

Pecoraro, 2013112

43 studies, 1795 patients

Endovascular with lower perioperative morbidity and mortality, but
lower patency and higher recurrence, no difference in long-term
survival

Gupta, 2010113

1939 patients

Endovascular with lower perioperative complications but lower
patency and higher recurrence, no difference in mortality

to 2006. They reported that there was a steady increase
in the number of endovascular procedures (vs open)
from 28% (2000) to 75% (2006) and that the endovascular interventions were associated with a lower perioperative mortality (11.0% vs 20.4%; P ¼ .001), mesenteric
complications (6.9% vs 17.1%; P < .0001), and individual
organ system complications (ie, cardiac, pulmonary,
and infections), although a higher percentage were discharged home (55% vs 37%; P < .0001). Erben et al116
examined the outcomes across the country for patients
(n ¼ 15,475) undergoing intervention for CMI using the
National Inpatient Sample from 2000 to 2014. They reported a similar trend in the breakdown of procedures
with 70.6% of the patients undergoing endovascular
treatment. Despite the fact that a higher percentage
(43.3% vs 33.1%; P < .0001) of the patients in the endovascular group had a Charlson Comorbidity Index score of 2
or higher, they had a lower mortality rate (2.4% vs 8.7%;
P < .0001), mean length of stay (6.3 days vs 14.0 days;
P < .0001), and lower cost of hospitalization ($21,686 vs
$42,974; P < .0001) and these differences persisted after
adjustment for clinical and hospital factors. Based on
these ﬁndings, the authors concluded that endovascular
revascularization should be the ﬁrst line of therapy for
patients with CMI. Lima et al117 performed a similar analysis using the same database from the years 2007 to 2014
to examine the impact of the choice of revascularization
on major cardiac and cerebrovascular events. In their
propensity-matched cohort, they reported that the major cardiac and cerebrovascular events and composite
in-hospital complications occurred less often after endovascular revascularization (8.6% vs 15.9% [P < .001] and
15.3% vs 20.3% [P < .0006], respectively) and that the
endovascular approach was associated with a shorter
hospital length of stay and lower hospital costs.
The aggregate evidence from the meta-analyses, case
series, and nationwide experience seems to support an
endovascular-ﬁrst approach for patients with CMI. The
consistent themes suggest that the endovascular
approach is associated with fewer perioperative

complications, shorter length of hospital stay, and lower
hospital costs, although the rates of recurrent symptoms
and reinterventions are higher. The longer term survival
rates are comparable between the open and endovascular approaches, although there seems to be trend toward
a higher perioperative mortality in the open cohort. The
comparable longer term survival seems to suggest that
endovascular failures and higher rates of recurrent symptoms are not leading an increased rate of death from
AMI. Fortunately, the endovascular-ﬁrst approach does
not seem to preclude subsequent open revascularization. In addition, the endovascular-ﬁrst recommendation
is consistent with other practice guidelines from the European Society of Vascular Surgery,11 the American College of Radiology,118 and the Society of Interventional
Radiologists.119
The recommendation for an endovascular-ﬁrst
approach must be tempered by the quality of the underlying evidence. Although the systematic reviews and
meta-analyses have attempted to identify the best
possible evidence, the trials that comprised the review
were largely retrospective, single-center studies and the
overall quality of the evidence in our review was deﬁned
as low. Furthermore, the individual case series likely
included a heterogeneous group of patients, clinical presentations, treatments (both open and endovascular),
surveillance protocols and remedial interventions.
The optimal treatment approach to patients with CMI
should likely encompass the patient’s anatomy, comorbidities, life expectancy, and individual goals of care
and may not be as simple as an endovascular-ﬁrst or
open-ﬁrst issue. Tallarita et al120 examined the longterm survival and cause of death after open and endovascular treatment for CMI. They found that the independent predictors of death were age greater than 80 years,
diabetes, chronic kidney disease, and home oxygen with
the leading causes of death being cardiac > cancer >
pulmonary > mesenteric. The 5-year survival was identical for the open and endovascular cohorts in their
propensity-matched analysis, suggesting that survival is

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

103S

Volume 73, Number 1S

dictated more by patient comorbidities than by the
choice of revascularization. Similarly, Lima et al121 examined the indications for readmission after revascularization for CMI in the National Inpatient Sample from
2007 to 2014. They reported that the 30-day readmission
rate was 19.5% with one-quarter of the readmissions
related to cardiovascular or cerebrovascular conditions.
The independent predictors of readmission included
nonelective index admission, chronic kidney disease,
and discharge to home health care or a skilled nursing
facility; the revascularization modality did not predict
the readmission rate. Interestingly, Hogendoorn et al122
developed a decision analysis model to compare open
and endovascular revascularization for CMI that incorporated perioperative and longer term mortality, complications, patency, reinterventions, and their associated costs.
They reported that the endovascular therapy cost more
for patients less than 60 years of age, but the incremental
cost effectiveness ratio was less than $60,000 per
quality-adjusted life-year. For patients 60 years of age
and older, the endovascular approach was preferred
because the effectiveness was greater and the costs
were lower. They concluded that the endovascular
approach was favored for all age groups because it
seems to be cost effective despite the higher rate of
reinterventions.
Despite the advances in the endovascular therapies
over the past few decades, there remains a role for
open revascularization for patients with CMI. The potential indications include endovascular failures, lesions
not amenable to endovascular treatment, and younger/
healthier patients who may do better in the long term
with open revascularization. The speciﬁc anatomic ﬁndings that would potentially preclude endovascular
treatment include ﬂush aortic occlusions, long
segment occlusions, severe calciﬁcation, tandem lesions, distal lesions, and small diameter vessels. A variety of creative endovascular solutions have been
described to overcome these relative contraindications.
Notably, Sharafuddin et al92 described their experience
with endovascular recanalization of total mesenteric
vessel occlusions and reported that neither the presence of a stump, ostial plaque, extensive calciﬁcation,
recanalization route (ie, intraluminal vs subintimal), occlusion length, nor vessel diameter impacted the procedure success. Their technical success rate was 85%,
but the 1- and 3-year primary patency rates were only
58% and 33%, respectively, and two patients died
from abdominal catastrophes and sepsis at 2 and
23 months. Similarly, Haben et al123 reported that the
total chronic occlusions of the SMA were associated
with decreased patency after endovascular treatment
when compared with stenoses. Longer term data are
required to establish the role of endovascular treatment for these higher risk anatomic lesions, although
it is conceivable that the optimal treatment may be

dictated by the individual provider skill set and patient
compliance with longer term follow-up.
Special discussions
The various treatment recommendations outlined
above may not be relevant for all patient populations,
speciﬁcally the elderly. It is certainly conceivable that
elderly patients (and potentially other groups) respond
differently to the various interventions, similar to carotid
artery stenting. Cardin et al124 did a systematic review
to identify relevant articles for the treatment of CMI in
the elderly ($65 years of age). They were able to identify
only 13 relevant articles and concluded that the management of CMI in the geriatric population is poorly
documented.
Implementation considerations
The recommended endovascular-ﬁrst approach to
revascularization for patients with CMI largely reﬂects
the current national practice although open revascularization should still play a signiﬁcant role and should be
considered within the treatment algorithm. The evolution of the endovascular therapies for CMI (and other
vascular surgical problems) has decreased the overall
number of open procedures, and, unfortunately, this
has impacted the number of open aortic procedures
performed in many training programs. This change in
the training paradigms has the potential to diminish
the open operative skill set of the graduating trainees
and, ultimately, the care of patients with CMI.
Future research
Level 1 evidence to deﬁne the role of endovascular vs
open revascularization for patients with CMI
d Further deﬁne the indications for endovascular revascularization for CMI
d Further deﬁne the indications for open revascularization for CMI
d Develop patient-speciﬁc treatment algorithms
d

Preoperative evaluation
Recommendations.
1. Patients undergoing revascularization for CMI should
be optimized from a medical standpoint before intervention although their preoperative evaluation should
be expedited. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. We recommend obtaining a CTA to delineate the
vascular anatomy before any revascularization.
A catheter-based arteriogram may be an alternative
if the anatomy is not clear on the CTA. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence:
A (High)
Rationale and background
Patients with CMI typically have systemic vascular disease and associated comorbidities. Accordingly, patients
undergoing treatment for CMI should undergo an expedited preoperative evaluation designed to optimize their

104S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

underlying medical conditions and management of their
atherosclerotic risk factors. Patients may beneﬁt from
enteral or parenteral nutritional supplements, although
this should not delay or prolong the preoperative evaluation before deﬁnitive revascularization. A CTA should be
obtained before revascularization to further deﬁne the
anatomy and extent of occlusive disease.
Detailed justiﬁcation
The atherosclerotic MAOD that leads to the development of CMI is a local manifestation of a systemic disease. Accordingly, patients undergoing treatment for
CMI have the typical cardiovascular risk factors and associated comorbidities (Table I). The associated comorbidities and risk factors should be managed optimally
before any revascularization for CMI, similar to patients
undergoing any major vascular surgical procedures.
There are well-accepted, published guidelines from
most of the medical subspecialties to guide the preoperative evaluation, including those from the American
Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology for the optimal preoperative cardiac evaluation for
patients undergoing major noncardiac surgery.125 Patients with active cardiac conditions, including unstable
angina, recent myocardial infarction, signiﬁcant arrhythmias, poorly compensated congestive heart failure, and/
or signiﬁcant valvular disease should be seen in consultation with a cardiologist and may beneﬁt from preoperative cardiac intervention. Patients should be counseled
about the importance of smoking cessation and should
be treated with an antiplatelet agent and a cholesterollowering agent, preferentially a statin, unless there are
speciﬁc contraindications.
The preoperative evaluation and workup should be
expedited in patients with CMI to avoid any untoward
events and progression to AMI. There is a spectrum of
symptoms for patients with CMI that range from intermittent, mild postprandial pain to persistent pain, unrelated to any oral intake. The latter is clearly more
worrisome for the progression to AMI with bowel infarction. Accordingly, patients with these more severe symptoms should likely be admitted and revascularized
urgently. They may beneﬁt from systemic anticoagulation, although the supporting evidence is limited. Parenteral or enteral (if appropriate) nutritional supplements
can help to replete the nutritional status of patients
with CMI, although revascularization should not be
delayed.
The preoperative preparation before revascularization
for CMI is similar to most aortic surgical procedures. Patients should be well-hydrated and administered prophylactic antibiotics, typically against skin and enteric
organisms. Bowel preparations should likely be avoided
owing to the theoretical risk to develop AMI. All patients
should have a CTA to facilitate revascularization, if not
already performed as part of the diagnosis workup, to

assess the location and extent of the MAOD, the presence of any anatomic variants (eg, origin of the right hepatic artery from the SMA), the quality of the inﬂow
sources for open revascularization, and the status of the
access vessels for the endovascular approach.8,11
Endovascular revascularization
Recommendation.
1. We suggest using balloon-expandable covered intraluminal stents for the treatment of the MAOD in patients with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Rationale and background
The generic endovascular approach to patients with
CMI is consistent with the broader principles of endovascular therapy with many of the more speciﬁc choices
based on provider skill and personal preference. The
SMA is the primary target vessels for revascularization,
whereas the CA and IMA are secondary targets if it is
not possible to revascularize the SMA or the clinical result
is inadequate. Several anatomic ﬁndings can complicate
the endovascular revascularization of the mesenteric vessels, as mentioned, including ﬂush aortic occlusion, small
caliber vessels, extensive calciﬁcation, the presence of
tandem lesions, and the extent of involvement (ie, lesion
length). Multiple reports have documented successful
endovascular revascularization for these scenarios,
although the long-term patency rates for these higher
risk lesions remains unclear and the requisite skill set
may not be universal. The use of balloon-expandable
intraluminal stents has replaced balloon angioplasty
alone for the treatment of de novo lesion. Balloonexpandable covered stents seem to have better longer
term patency, presumably owing to the prevention of tissue ingrowth through the interstices of the stent by the
fabric. A completion imaging study is an integral part
of any endovascular intervention and should be performed routinely. Intravascular ultrasound examination
and/or intraluminal pressure measurements can be
helpful to further interrogate any residual stenoses or lesions. The postoperative management after endovascular revascularization for CMI is comparable with other
catheter-based procedures, although it is possible for patients to develop multiple organ problems from the
ischemia/reperfusion injury similar to that seen after
open revascularization. All patients should be maintained on antiplatelet agents and a cholesterollowering agent, preferentially a statin, unless there is a
contraindication.
Detailed justiﬁcation
The endovascular revascularization for patients with
CMI is similar to the approach for the other vascular
beds in terms of access, imaging, choice of systems, device delivery, device deployment, management of

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

105S

Volume 73, Number 1S

complications, and medical therapy, with the majority of
the clinical decisions based on provider preference and
skill set. Both the femoral and brachial arteries are appropriate access sites, although an open brachial approach
may be favored based on the orientation of the mesenteric vessels (ie, posterior to anterior, cephalad to caudal),
the favorable vector forces associated with the antegrade introduction of the various endovascular catheters
and devices, and the diminutive size of the brachial artery with the inherent risk of injury or thrombosis associated with the percutaneous approach. Likewise, the
choice of wires (eg, 0.018 vs 0.035) should be dictated
by the speciﬁc characteristics of the lesion and provider
preference. A completion imaging study should be performed at the time of the procedure. Intraluminal pressure measurements may be helpful to document the
pressure gradient across the stent if there is any concern
about its appearance.
Balloon-expandable covered intraluminal stents seem
to be the optimal stent choice and likely afford the
same advantages as reported in other anatomic locations.126,127 The characteristics of the balloonexpandable stents (eg, high radial force, functionality at
short lengths, limited shortening with expansion) make
them well-suited for the common atherosclerotic, calciﬁed lesion at the oriﬁce of the mesenteric vessels.
Furthermore, the fabric of the covered stent seems to
inhibit the ingrowth of tissue seen with bare metal stents
that leads to the development of intimal hyperplasia and
recurrent stenoses. Generically, the balloon-expandable
and self-expanding stents should be viewed as complementary with the later potentially having a role in the
SMA for longer lesions (ie, beyond the oriﬁce), intraluminal dissections related to the initial endovascular technique, and for preserving any signiﬁcant collateral
vessels (eg, high take-off of a right hepatic artery).
Interestingly, there has been an evolution from angioplasty alone to balloon-expandable bare metal stents
to
balloon-expandable
covered
stents.32,128,129
32
Oderich et al compared the outcomes of patients
with primary or secondary endovascular interventions
for CMI between those undergoing treatment with
bare metal (n ¼ 164 patients and 197 vessels) or
balloon-expandable covered stents (n ¼ 61 patients and
67 vessels). They reported that the freedom from restenosis (92% 6 6% vs 52% 6 4%; P ¼ .003), freedom from
symptom recurrence (92 6 4% vs 50 6 4%; P ¼ .003),
freedom from reintervention (91 6 6% vs 56 6 5%; P ¼
.005), and primary patency at 3 years (92 6 6% vs 52 6
5%; P < .003) were all better for covered stents for the
treatment of the primary lesions. Similarly, they reported
that the freedom from restenosis (89 6 10% vs 49 6 14%;
P < .04), freedom from symptom recurrence (100% vs
64 6 9%; P ¼ .001), and freedom from reintervention
(100% vs 72 6 9%; P ¼ .03) were all better for the
covered stents in the reintervention group. Notably,

van Dijk et al130 have published the study protocol for a
randomized
trial
(CoBaGI)
comparing
balloonexpandable covered vs balloon-expandable bare-metal
stents for CMI.
There may be a role for the use of embolic protection
devices for select patients undergoing endovascular
revascularization for CMI, similar to the scenario for carotid artery stenting or infrainguinal revascularization,
although the supporting evidence is limited.
Mendes et al131 reported their experience with the selective use (36%) of embolic protection devices among
170 patients undergoing revascularization for mesenteric ischemia (both CMI and AMI). The indications for
the devices included severe calciﬁcation, acute
thrombus, and total occlusions. Macroscopic debris
was detected in 66% of the ﬁlter patients although
distal emboli were detected in only 6%. There were
no technical complications associated with the ﬁlter
deployment or retrieval.
Endovascular revascularization for CMI can be associated with both local and systemic complications from
the intervention and underlying disease process.132,133
The perioperative complications were lower after the
endovascular approach and these lower rates partly
justify the endovascular-ﬁrst approach as detailed elsewhere in this article. Not surprisingly, access complications, contrast-induced renal insufﬁciency, target vessel
dissection, device failure, and arterial embolization have
all been reported after interventions for CMI.131,134-138
Patients should be maintained on antiplatelet agents
and a statin after intervention, both open and endovascular.139 The optimal antiplatelet agent regimen and
endovascular interventions for CMI remains unresolved.
Peeters Weem et al140 performed a meta-analysis to
examine the optimal antiplatelet regimen after endovascular arterial procedures. They did not support the use of
dual antiplatelet therapy (vs monotherapy) and actually
advised against it owing to an increased bleeding risk.
A meta-analysis examining the impact of more intense
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol-lowering strategies
reported that all-cause mortality was decreased by 10%,
largely from deaths owing to coronary heart disease, for
each 1 mmol/L reduction in low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol (RR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.87-0.93; P < .0001).141
The COMPASS Trial reported that the combination of
rivaroxaban (2.5 mg twice daily) and aspirin (100 mg
daily) was associated with a lower incidence of major
adverse cardiac and limb events than aspirin alone for
patients with stable peripheral and cerebral arterial disease.142 However, the role for rivaroxaban and ticagrelor
for patients with CMI undergoing revascularization remains to be determined.143,144 Enteral feedings can usually be reintroduced shortly after revascularization. A
completion imaging study, typically a mesenteric DUS
examination, should be performed in the early postoperative period to conﬁrm the technical adequacy of the

106S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

procedure and serve as a baseline for follow-up and surveillance imaging.
Future research
Deﬁne the optimal endovascular approach for patients
with CMI.
d Deﬁne the optimal postoperative care paradigm after
endovascular revascularization for CMI
d

Open surgical revascularization
Recommendation.
1. The choice of open surgical revascularization for CMI
should be determined by anatomy, comorbidities,
prior interventions and provider preference. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
Rationale and background
The choice of open revascularization for CMI should be
determined by anatomy, patient comorbidities, prior interventions, and provider preference. There are a variety
of open and hybrid approaches, including antegrade
bypass from the supraceliac aorta, retrograde bypass
from the common iliac artery (or infrarenal aorta), aortic
endarterectomy, and open retrograde mesenteric stenting. The antegrade and retrograde bypasses are the most
commonly performed, but all of the approaches can be
viewed as complementary because they may play a
role in speciﬁc situations. Revascularization of both the
SMA and CA, as typically performed with the antegrade
bypass, affords some theoretical advantages, although
the outcomes have not been consistently better than
those reported for the SMA alone as typically performed
with the retrograde bypass. The perioperative care for patients undergoing open revascularization is comparable
with the endovascular approach although the incidence
of complications and hospital length of stay are both
increased as detailed previously. Medical treatment
should include antiplatelets and a statin, and all patients
should obtain a completion or surveillance imaging
study.
Detailed justiﬁcation
Similar to most bypass procedures, revascularization for
CMI requires a suitable inﬂow source, a suitable outﬂow
target, a lesion to bypass, and an acceptable conduit.
The common inﬂow sources include the supraceliac
aorta (antegrade bypass) and the infrarenal aorta/common iliac arteries (retrograde bypass). The ultimate
determinant of the inﬂow choice (and the bypass conﬁguration) is contingent upon the distribution of the arterial
occlusive disease and the provider familiarity with
various exposures. The supraceliac aorta tends to be relatively spared from atherosclerotic disease, although the
exposure is a bit more complicated and mandates mobilizing the left lobe of the liver and incising the crus of the
diaphragm. It is possible to place a partial occluding

clamp on the supraceliac aorta (eg, Satinsky) and maintain visceral perfusion while avoiding some of the hemodynamic changes associated with a complete
supravisceral aortic clamp, although this maneuver is
not always possible. The infrarenal aorta and iliac vessels
can be suitable donor sites, although they are more
prone to atherosclerotic occlusive disease that preclude
their use, as seen in the case of a circumferentially calciﬁed infrarenal aorta commonly referred to as the porcelain aorta. The potential options in this setting included
replacing the involved aortoiliac segment or simply
choosing another inﬂow site. A variety of alternative
inﬂow sources have been describe, including the
ascending aorta,145 the descending aorta,145 and the axillary artery,146 although the published experience is small.
The retrograde open mesenteric stenting is a reasonable hybrid (ie, open and endovascular) alternative for
patients with extensive aortoiliac occlusive disease,
particularly for those involving both the infrarenal and suprarenal aorta, because it does not require the placement of an aortic (or iliac clamp).147 Oderich et al148
recently reported the collective experience (n ¼ 54)
with open retrograde stenting for both CMI (19%) and
AMI (81%) from the Low Frequency Vascular Disease
Research Consortium. The technical success rate was
excellent (98%) and the patency rates at 2 years (primary,
76% 6 8%; secondary 90% 6 8%) were comparable with
those achieved with percutaneous stenting. The procedure can be facilitated by snaring the wire introduced
retrograde through the SMA from the brachial artery at
the antecubital fossa, thereby increasing the functional
working length and allowing the endovascular devices
to be introduced in the more familiar antegrade fashion.
The atherosclerotic occlusive disease that leads to
MAOD typically affects the origin of the vessels. Accordingly, the more distal extent of the mesenteric vessel
tends to be spared and, thus, is a suitable bypass target.
This choice of distal target can be complicated by the
presence of an occluded stent, prior mesenteric bypasses, or more extensive occlusive disease (ie, extending
beyond the origin). The option in this setting includes
selecting a target that is further distal on the involved
vessel. This can require a limited endarterectomy and a
vein patch to help create a more patulous vessel and better bypass target.
Prosthetic grafts are suitable conduits and, historically,
the longer term patency rates have been equivocal
when compared with autogenous conduits.149,150
They are contraindicated in the setting of AMI and bowel
infarction with contamination. Notably, Davenport et al151
reviewed the patients (n ¼ 156) undergoing aortomesenteric bypass for CMI in the American College of Surgeon’s
National Surgical Quality Improvement Program Participant Use File during 2005 to 2009. They reported that
patients undergoing bypass with vein were more likely
to require a bowel resection and that there was a higher

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

107S

Volume 73, Number 1S

mortality rate (16% vs 5%; P ¼ .039), although there were
no other differences in the other perioperative complications. These ﬁndings likely reﬂect the fact that the vein
conduits were used for patients with AMI rather than
speciﬁc concerns about the quality of the conduit itself.
The retrograde bypass may be a little more straightforward and less time consuming than the antegrade
bypass and, thus, potentially more suitable for patients
with advanced comorbidities. Interestingly, Scali et al152
compared the outcomes after antegrade and retrograde
bypass for AMI and reported that there was no difference
in the perioperative outcomes, although the antegrade
bypass was associated with a lower reintervention rate.
Furthermore, the exposure of the infrarenal aorta and
iliac vessels is more familiar than the supraceliac aorta
for most vascular surgeons.
The retrograde iliosuperior mesenteric bypass originating from the proximal common iliac artery has been
criticized because of the potential for the bypass to
kink. Indeed, the bypass passes from a caudal to cephalad and posterior to anterior course. The potential for
kinking may be decreased by the use of a ringed bypass
graft and by performing the distal anastomosis to the
SMA in an end-to-end fashion. The retrograde bypass
can also be tunneled deep (or around) the left renal artery to optimize the course of the graft with a technique
referred to as the French Bypass.153,154 Alternatively,
Huerta et al155 have described a technique (direct open
retrograde revascularization) in which the bypass is
tunneled directly through the small bowel mesentery.
A pedicle of omentum can be mobilized and used to
cover the retrograde bypass graft to avoid contact with
the bowel.
Aortic endarterectomy may play a role in patients with
a hostile operative ﬁeld from multiple prior procedures,
complex abdominal wall defects, radiation injury, and/or
the presence of bacterial contamination. Mell et al156 reported their experience with 80 patients (endarterectomy, 37; bypass, 29; combined, 14) undergoing
treatment for CMI. They reported excellent results in
terms of survival (1 year, 92.2%; 5 years, 64.5%) and
symptom-free survival (1 year, 89.7%; 5 years, 82.1%)
with endarterectomy for revascularization identiﬁed as
predictor of freedom from recurrent symptoms on their
multivariate analysis (5.2% vs 27.6%; HR, 0.2; 95% CI,
004-0.92; P ¼ .02).
There has been a debate about the number of vessels
to be revascularized at the time of open mesenteric
bypass, similar to the scenario with the endovascular
revascularization. Multiple vessel revascularization affords the theoretical advantage that a greater extent of
the bowel is perfused directly and provides some redundancy if one of the grafts were to fail. However, the longterm outcomes comparing the SMA alone and SMA/celiac bypasses have been equivocal, further underscoring
the importance of the SMA as the deﬁnitive target.7,157

There are reports of patients undergoing revascularization of the IMA96 and branches of the SMA158 for CMI,
although these options should be reserved for select patients who are not candidates for the more standard
options.
Although the guidelines are directed at the management of patients with CMI, a moderate percentage of patients will present with progression of their symptoms (ie,
acute-on-chronic disease), with an even smaller percentage having bowel infarction with perforation. The management principles include resection of the frankly
necrotic bowel, reassessment of the marginal bowel after
revascularization, autogenous vascular reconstruction,
the avoidance of primary bowel anastomoses in the
setting of ischemia, and liberal use of a second-look
laparotomy.
The perioperative management of patients undergoing
open revascularization for CMI is comparable with that
for patients undergoing other open aortic procedures.
The obligatory ischemia/reperfusion injury can lead to
multiple organ dysfunction with respiratory, renal, hepatic, and hematologic insufﬁciency.157,159 The optimal treatment regimen includes simply supportive care until the
end-organ failure resolves. The clinical sequelae of the
ischemia/reperfusion injury can mimic graft thrombosis
and AMI, underscoring the importance of conﬁrming
that the bypass grafts are patent with the appropriate
imaging when in question. The return of bowel function
is commonly delayed and may necessitate the temporary use of parenteral nutrition. A small percentage of patients will develop prolonged diarrhea requiring home
parenteral nutrition.157
Similar to the patients undergoing endovascular revascularization, patients should be maintained on antiplatelet agents and a statin.139 A completion imaging study
should be performed intraoperatively at the time of the
procedure and/or before discharge to conﬁrm the technical adequacy of the procedure and to serve as a baseline. Technical defects have been identiﬁed in up to 15%
of the procedures with a low rate of graft failure among
normal studies.160 Identiﬁcation and correction of
major defects using intraoperative ultrasound has
been reported to signiﬁcantly decrease graft-related
complications and death after open mesenteric
revascularization.160
The higher rate of perioperative complications associated with the open approach has been used to justify
the endovascular-ﬁrst approach. The open approach
has been associated with a higher perioperative complication rate, hospital length of stay, and cost, although the
perioperative mortality rates seem to be equivocal. These
increased perioperative complications are offset by a
lower rate of recurrent symptoms and reinterventions,
despite no difference in long-term mortality. Interestingly, Wagenhäuser et al161 reported that patients undergoing open revascularization had a lower health related

108S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

quality of life compared with normative data, suggesting
that the beneﬁt from open repair may be modest.
Special discussions
A select group of patients with MAOD involving the
SMA may require revascularization at the time of an
open aortic procedure, as summarized elsewhere in
this article. A retrograde SMA bypass for the aortic graft
(or the iliac limb) is feasible for transperitoneal open repairs. This is also feasible for retroperitoneal aortic repairs
although it usually involves entering the peritoneal cavity
and dissecting the proximal SMA after mobilizing the
duodenum.
Future research
Deﬁne the optimal, open technique for revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the optimal perioperative care for patients undergoing open revascularization for CMI
d

Surveillance and remediation
Recommendations.
1. We suggest patient education and counseling about
recurrent symptoms in all patients undergoing revascularization for CMI owing to the high rate of recurrence. (Ungraded Good Practice Statement)
2. Patients should be followed in the outpatient setting
after revascularization for CMI. A possible follow-up
schedule includes within 1 month of the procedure
and then biannually for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then
annually thereafter. (Ungraded Good Practice
Statement)
3. We suggest surveillance with mesenteric DUS to identify recurrent stenoses after revascularization for CMI.
A possible ultrasound surveillance schedule includes
within 1 month of the procedure and then biannually
for the ﬁrst 2 years, and then annually. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
4. We recommend performing a CTA or catheter-based
arteriograms to conﬁrm any restenoses detected by
DUS imaging in patients with symptoms consistent
with CMI. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
5. In patients with recurrent symptoms of CMI, we
recommend remedial treatment as recommended
for the de novo lesions. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
6. In select patients with asymptomatic recurrent stenosis, we suggest a shared decision-making approach
between the patient and provider to discuss revascularization as recommended for the de novo lesions.
Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low)
7. We suggest that the choice of revascularization for
recurrent stenoses should be similar to the de novo lesions with the endovascular approach recommended
as the initial option and open revascularization

reserved for lesions not amenable to the endovascular
approach. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Rationale and background
Patients may develop recurrent stenoses and/or recurrent symptoms after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI. Indeed, it is well-accepted that
endovascular revascularization is associated with a
higher rate of recurrent stenoses and symptoms. The
clinical presentation can range from high-grade asymptomatic stenoses to AMI with bowel infarction. Unfortunately, the natural history of these recurrent stenoses
and recurrent symptoms remains poorly deﬁned. Patients should be educated about the potential to
develop recurrent symptoms and counseled to seek
medical care at the onset of their symptoms. An
image-based surveillance protocol can help to identify
recurrent stenoses. However, it is not clear that the identiﬁcation of these recurrent lesions and remediation with
either an endovascular or open approach results in
improved outcomes in terms of symptoms, survival,
and/or quality of life. DUS examination is the optimal surveillance imaging study after revascularization although
the criteria for the native arteries tend to overestimate
the degree of stenosis (ie, 70% stenosis in treated arteries
associated with higher PSV and EDV). CTA can help to
conﬁrm or refute the DUS ﬁndings. The management
of signiﬁcant recurrent stenoses, both asymptomatic
and symptomatic, should be the same as outlined for
de novo lesions. Speciﬁcally, patients with recurrent
CMI should undergo revascularization with an
endovascular-ﬁrst approach, regardless of the initial
approach, whereas open revascularization should be
reserved for patients who are not amenable to the endovascular approach. A select group of patients with
asymptomatic recurrent stenosis may also beneﬁt from
reintervention, but the exact indications for such reintervention remain undeﬁned.
Detailed justiﬁcation
Patients who undergo revascularization for MAOD and
CMI are at risk for recurrent stenoses and recurrent symptoms. The incidence of these adverse events is greater after endovascular revascularization, as noted elsewhere in
this discussion. The presentation can range from asymptomatic stenoses to AMI and bowel infarction. Fortunately, the latter condition seems to be less common
and it is encouraging that the higher rate of recurrence
seen in the endovascular group is not associated with a
higher longer term mortality rate. Fortunately, the incidence of recurrent symptoms is less common than the
incidence of recurrent stenoses, but highlights the fact
that the presence of recurrent symptoms is not a surrogate for vessel or graft patency. The natural history of
these recurrent stenoses, both asymptomatic and

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

109S

Volume 73, Number 1S

symptomatic, remains poorly deﬁned. It is conceivable
that the asymptomatic, recurrent stenosis has a worse
prognosis than a comparable, untreated asymptomatic
lesion, given that the index lesion was initially treated
for CMI, although this remains to be documented.
Patients should be counseled about the risk of recurrent stenosis and recurrent symptoms. They should be
engaged in their health care and counseled to seek urgent medical attention if they develop recurrent symptoms. Ideally, they should be engaged in a longer term
follow-up protocol, although the frequency of visits
beyond the immediate perioperative period remains undeﬁned. There is likely some usefulness in an imagebased surveillance protocol based on the contention
that the identiﬁcation of a signiﬁcant lesion may lead
to a remedial intervention that will translate into a better
outcome in terms of vessel/graft patency and a lower
incidence of recurrent symptoms and death. The purported beneﬁts of surveillance in this setting are similar
to those after lower extremity bypass, but it is noteworthy
that surveillance after lower extremity bypass has not
been shown to be effective in a well-performed randomized trial162 nor supported in the Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus II recommendations.163 Schoch et al164
reported that 83% of the patients undergoing endovascular treatment for CMI (n ¼ 107) developed elevated velocities of the target lesion on DUS imaging, although
53% did not require any remedial intervention.
Liem et al165 reported the results of their surveillance protocol after open mesenteric bypass. Although they were
able to identify an association with smaller graft diameter
and increased PSVs, they were unable to identify any predictors of graft thrombosis. A practical longer term followup protocol may include clinic evaluation and imagebased surveillance within 1 month of the initial procedure
(either open or endovascular revascularization) and then
every 6 months for the ﬁrst 2 years and yearly thereafter.
However, the frequency of visits may well be inﬂuenced
by the presence or severity of recurrent stenosis or symptoms. The value of the early postoperative imaging study
to conﬁrm the technical adequacy of the revascularization and to serve as a baseline for future studies has
been emphasized in the preceding sections. Notably,
the suggested follow-up and surveillance protocol is
consistent with the Society for Vascular Surgery practice
guidelines for follow-up after arterial procedures.166
DUS examination is the ideal initial imaging study for
the detection of recurrent stenoses and the recommended surveillance imaging study for the de novo lesions.
However, the velocity criteria for the native mesenteric
vessel tend to overestimate the degree of stenosis in
the treated vessels after both endovascular and open
revascularization. Several studies have documented the
velocity criteria for recurrent stenoses after revascularization and there seems to be relatively broad range of
criteria that corresponded to with a more than 70%

stenosis.167-169 Ideally, these criteria should be validated
in each individual vascular laboratory although this is
likely impractical. Simplistically, a PSV of more than
300 cm/s with an EDV of more than 50 cm/s at an angioplasty site or bypass anastomosis or a dampened velocity
spectra and a PSV of less than 40 cm/s within a bypass
graft are all suggestive of a greater than 70%
stenosis.167,168
CTA is the deﬁnitive imaging study for recurrent stenosis and can be helpful to conﬁrm/refute the DUS ﬁndings and to help plan any further intervention.170
Furthermore, it can be helpful as a surveillance imaging
study for the few patients who cannot be adequately
imaged with DUS imaging. The presence of an intraluminal stent can confound the determination of the degree of stenosis on CT scans, similar to the scenario with
DUS imaging. Noncontrast images can be helpful to
interrogate the stent architecture. A catheter-based
arteriogram with the measurement of intraluminal
pressures may occasionally be helpful in equivocal cases
to determine the hemodynamic signiﬁcance of a recurrent stenosis.77
The management of patients with a recurrent stenosis
and recurrent symptoms consistent with CMI is similar
to the management of a symptomatic de novo lesion.
Patients should undergo a CTA to facilitate the intervention, if not already performed. An endovascular-ﬁrst
approach is recommended for both failing endovascular
and open revascularization with the speciﬁcs of the procedure contingent upon the extent of the lesion, the
presence of thrombus, and the details of the initial procedure. It is interesting that endovascular revascularization has evolved from a “bridge to open
revascularization” to actually a “bridge to further percutaneous procedures.”171 The endovascular options include
thrombomechanical lysis for acute thrombus, balloon
angioplasty alone for in-stent restenosis, and/or the
placement of a balloon-expandable covered stent within
a bare metal stent. Tallarita et al172 reported their outcomes for patients undergoing reintervention after
mesenteric artery and stenting. Among the 157 patients
treated initially, 57 (36%) developed recurrent stenosis
at a mean follow-up of 29 months with 24 patients
(42%) with recurrent stenoses developing recurrent
symptoms (CMI, 21; AMI, 3). Repeat endovascular treatment was possible in 26 (87%) and was associate with
low mortality (3%) and excellent symptom improvement
(92%), despite a moderate complication rate (27% access
site, embolization/bowel ischemia, congestive heart failure, stent thrombosis). Importantly, 43% of the areas of
restenosis corresponded with technical defects identiﬁed at the index procedure. Admittedly, this is only a single series, but it suggests that many of the recurrent
stenoses are really inadequately treated index lesions,
underscoring the importance of completion imaging
and an adequate initial technical result.

110S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

January Supplement 2021

The remedial strategies for a failing or thrombosed
bypass graft are similar to those outlined for the endovascular approach. Although somewhat counterintuitive,
endovascular options should be thoroughly explored
given the complexity of a reoperative mesenteric bypass.
Kanamori et al173 identiﬁed 47 patients with failing or
thrombosed mesenteric bypasses presenting with CMI
(81%) and AMI (91%). Remedial endovascular therapy
was possible in 40% and was associated with a lower
periprocedural complication rate, although the periprocedural mortality and longer term recurrence and reinterventions rates were similar to the patients
undergoing remedial open procedures. Notably, the outcomes after the remedial open revascularization procedures were comparable with the ﬁrst-time procedures in
their case-matched controls, although the patency rates
were inferior. The remedial open revascularizations can
be facilitated by using an alternative inﬂow source to
avoid some of the challenges associated with a reoperative ﬁeld (ie, convert failed retrograde bypass to antegrade bypass or vice versa). Notably, Zacharias et al114
reported that the perioperative mortality was higher
among patients undergoing open revascularization after
a failed endovascular revascularization when compared
with the primary endovascular or open groups (15% vs
2%; P ¼ .005). Giswold et al174 have reported reasonable
outcomes after redo mesenteric bypass (n ¼ 22) with a
perioperative mortality and morbidity rate of 6% and
33%, respectively, and a 1-year primary patency and survival rate of 74% and 76%, respectively. Furthermore,
alternative outﬂow sources should be considered.
Schneider et al96 reported a small series of isolated IMA
revascularizations for CMI. They stated that the revascularization was sufﬁcient to relieve the symptoms and prevent bowel infarction, although it required a welldeveloped collateral pathway.
The optimal management of asymptomatic recurrent
stenoses after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI remains unresolved. Indeed, the natural history
is even less deﬁned than for de novo mesenteric artery lesions. The basic management principles for the de novo
asymptomatic lesions are likely appropriate, although a
lower threshold for remedial intervention may be justiﬁed
given the prior symptomatology and the potential rate of
recurrent symptoms, particularly since the remedial endovascular interventions are relatively safe.

FUTURE RESEARCH
Deﬁne the natural history of symptomatic recurrent
stenosis after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the natural history of asymptomatic recurrent
stenosis after both endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the optimal surveillance protocol after both
endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d

Deﬁne the optimal remedial strategies after failed
endovascular and open revascularization for CMI
d Deﬁne the optimal medical treatment after revascularization for CMI
d

REFERENCES
1. Wilson DB, Mostafavi K, Craven TE, Ayerdi J, Edwards MS,
Hansen KJ. Clinical course of mesenteric artery stenosis in
elderly Americans. Arch Intern Med 2006;166:2095-100.
2. Croft RJ, Menon GP, Marston A. Does ’intestinal angina’
exist? A critical study of obstructed visceral arteries. Br J
Surg 1981;68:316-8.
3. Valentine RJ, Martin JD, Myers SI, Rossi MB, Clagett GP.
Asymptomatic celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenoses are more prevalent among patients with unsuspected renal artery stenoses. J Vasc Surg 1991;14:195-9.
4. Mikkelsen WP. Intestinal angina: its surgical signiﬁcance.
Am J Surg 1957;94:262-7.
5. Carrick RP, Borge MA, Labropolous N, Rodriguez H. Chronic
mesenteric ischemia resulting from isolated lesions of the
superior mesenteric artery-a case report. Angiology
2005;56:785-8.
6. Oderich GS, Bower TC, Sullivan TM, Bjarnason H, Cha S,
Gloviczki P. Open versus endovascular revascularization for
chronic mesenteric ischemia: risk-stratiﬁed outcomes.
J Vasc Surg 2009;49:1472-9.e3.
7. Foley MI, Moneta GL, Abou-Zamzam AM Jr, Edwards JM,
Taylor LM Jr, Yeager RA, et al. Revascularization of the superior mesenteric artery alone for treatment of intestinal
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2000;32:37-47.
8. Expert Panels on Vascular Imaging and Gastrointestinal
imaging, Ginsburg M, Obara P, Lambert DL, Hanley M,
Steigner ML, et al. ACR Appropriateness Criteria((R)) imaging of mesenteric ischemia. J Am Coll Radiol 2018;15:
S332-40.
9. Oderich GS, Gloviczki P, Bower TC. Open surgical treatment
for chronic mesenteric ischemia in the endovascular era:
when it is necessary and what is the preferred technique?
Semin Vasc Surg 2010;23:36-46.
10. Schermerhorn ML, Giles KA, Hamdan AD, Wyers MC,
Pomposelli FB. Mesenteric revascularization: management
and outcomes in the United States, 1988-2006. J Vasc Surg
2009;50:341-8.e1.
11. Bjorck M, Koelemay M, Acosta S, Bastos Goncalves F,
Kölbel T, Kolkman JJ, et al. Editor’s Choice - Management of
the diseases of mesenteric arteries and veins: clinical
practice guidelines of the European Society of Vascular
Surgery (ESVS). Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2017;53:460-510.
12. Alahdab F, Arwani R, Pasha AK, Razouki ZA, Prokop LJ,
Huber TS, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of
endovascular versus open surgical revascularization for
chronic mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:1598-605.
13. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for
Vascular Surgery including the experience with the GRADE
framework. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
14. Murad MH, Swiglo BA, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Montori VM.
Methodology for clinical practice guidelines for the management of arteriovenous access. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:
26s-30s.
15. Guyatt
GH,
Alonso-Coello
P,
Schünemann
HJ,
Djulbegovic B, Nothacker M, Lange S, et al. Guideline panels
should seldom make good practice statements: guidance
from the GRADE Working Group. J Clin Epidemiol 2016;80:
3-7.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

111S

Volume 73, Number 1S
16. Connolly JE. The meandering mesenteric artery or central
anastomotic artery. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:1059.
17. Thomas JH, Blake K, Pierce GE, Hermreck AS, Seigel E. The
clinical course of asymptomatic mesenteric arterial stenosis. J Vasc Surg 1998;27:840-4.
18. Kolkman JJ, Bargeman M, Huisman AB, Geelkerken RH.
Diagnosis and management of splanchnic ischemia. World
J Gastroenterol 2008;14:7309-20.
19. JW F, editor. Physiology of the Intestinal Circulation. Norris,
MT: Raven Press; 1984.
20. Siregar H, Chou CC. Relative contribution of fat, protein,
carbohydrate, and ethanol to intestinal hyperemia. Am J
Physiol 1982;242:G27-31.
21. Moneta GL, Taylor DC, Helton WS, Mulholland MW,
Strandness DE Jr. Duplex ultrasound measurement of
postprandial intestinal blood ﬂow: effect of meal composition. Gastroenterology 1988;95:1294-301.
22. Gallavan RH Jr, Chou CC, Kvietys PR, Sit SP. Regional blood
ﬂow during digestion in the conscious dog. Am J Physiol
1980;238:H220-5.
23. Poole JW, Sammartano RJ, Boley SJ. Hemodynamic basis
of the pain of chronic mesenteric ischemia. Am J Surg
1987;153:171-6.
24. Fu LW, Longhurst JC. Interleukin-1beta sensitizes abdominal visceral afferents of cats to ischaemia and histamine.
J Physiol 1999;521 Pt 1:249-60.
25. Kozar RA, Schultz SG, Hassoun HT, Desoignie R,
Weisbrodt NW, Haber MM, et al. The type of sodiumcoupled solute modulates small bowel mucosal injury,
transport function, and ATP after ischemia/reperfusion
injury in rats. Gastroenterology 2002;123:810-6.
26. Sanders BM, Dalsing MC. Mesenteric ischemia affects
young adults with predisposition. Ann Vasc Surg 2003;17:
270-6.
27. Rits Y, Oderich GS, Bower TC, Miller DV, Cooper L,
Ricotta JJ 2nd, et al. Interventions for mesenteric vasculitis.
J Vasc Surg 2010;51:392-400.e2.
28. Fields CE, Bower TC, Cooper LT, Hoskin T, Noel AA,
Panneton JM, et al. Takayasu’s arteritis: operative results
and inﬂuence of disease activity. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:64-71.
29. Min PK, Park S, Jung JH, Ko YG, Choi D, Jang Y, et al.
Endovascular therapy combined with immunosuppressive
treatment for occlusive arterial disease in patients with
Takayasu’s arteritis. J Endovasc Ther 2005;12:28-34.
30. Zettervall SL, Lo RC, Soden PA, Deery SE, Ultee KH, Pinto DS,
et al. Trends in treatment and mortality for mesenteric
ischemia in the United States from 2000 to 2012. Ann Vasc
Surg 2017;42:111-9.
31. Silva JA, White CJ, Collins TJ, Jenkins JS, Andry ME, Reilly JP,
et al. Endovascular therapy for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. J Am Coll Cardiol 2006;47:944-50.
32. Oderich GS, Erdoes LS, Lesar C, Mendes BC,
Gloviczki P, Cha S, et al. Comparison of covered stents
versus bare metal stents for treatment of chronic
atherosclerotic mesenteric arterial disease. J Vasc Surg
2013;58:1316-23.
33. Sarac TP, Altinel O, Kashyap V, Bena J, Lynden S,
Sruvastava S, et al. Endovascular treatment of stenotic and
occluded visceral arteries for chronic mesenteric ischemia.
J Vasc Surg 2008;47:485-91.
34. van Dijk LJ, van Noord D, de Vries AC, Kolkman JJ,
Geelkerken RH, Verhagen HJ, et al. Clinical management of
chronic mesenteric ischemia. United European Gastroenterol J 2019;7:179-88.
35. Lejay A, Georg Y, Tartaglia E, Creton O, Lucereau B,
Thaveau F, et al. Chronic mesenteric ischemia: 20 year

experience of open surgical treatment. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2015;49:587-92.
36. Allain C, Besch G, Guelle N, Rinckenbach S, Salomon du
Mont L. Prevalence and impact of malnutrition in patients
surgically treated for chronic mesenteric ischemia. Ann
Vasc Surg 2019;58:24-31.
37. Mansukhani NA, Hekman KE, Yoon DY, Helenowski IB,
Hoel AW, Rodriguez HE, et al. Impact of body mass index
on outcomes after mesenteric revascularization for chronic
mesenteric ischemia. Ann Vasc Surg 2018;48:159-65.
38. Boley SJ, Brandt LJ, Veith FJ, Kosches D, Sales C. A new
provocative test for chronic mesenteric ischemia. Am J
Gastroenterol 1991;86:888-91.
39. Bjornsson S, Resch T, Acosta S. Symptomatic mesenteric
atherosclerotic disease-lessons learned from the diagnostic
workup. J Gastrointest Surg 2013;17:973-80.
40. Johnston KW, Lindsay TF, Walker PM, Kalman PG. Mesenteric arterial bypass grafts: early and late results and suggested surgical approach for chronic and acute mesenteric
ischemia. Surgery 1995;118:1-7.
41. Marston A, Clarke JM, Garcia GJ, Miller AL. Intestinal function and intestinal blood supply: a 20 year surgical study.
Gut 1985;26:656-66.
42. Van Damme H, Jacquet N, Belaiche J, Creemers E, Limet R.
Chronic ischaemic gastritis: an unusual form of splanchnic
vascular insufﬁciency. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1992;33:451-3.
43. Van Noord D, Sana A, Benaron DA, Pattynama PMT,
Verhagen HJM, Hansen BE, et al. Endoscopic visible light
spectroscopy: a new, minimally invasive technique to diagnose
chronic GI ischemia. Gastrointest Endosc 2011;73:291-8.
44. Berge ST, Saﬁ N, Medhus AW, Anonsen K, Sundhagen JO,
Hisdal J, et al. Gastroscopy assisted laser Doppler ﬂowmetry
and visible light spectroscopy in patients with chronic
mesenteric ischemia. Scand J Clin Lab Invest 2019;79:541-9.
45. Geelkerken RH, Schultze Kool LJ, Hermans J, Zarza MT, van
Bockel JH. Chronic splanchnic ischaemia: is tonometry a
useful test? Eur J Surg 1997;163:115-21.
46. Harki J, Vergouwe Y, Spoor JA, Mensink PB, Bruno MJ, van
Noord D, et al. Diagnostic accuracy of the combination of
clinical symptoms and CT or MR angiography in patients
with chronic gastrointestinal ischemia. J Clin Gastroenterol
2017;51:e39-47.
47. van Dijk LJ, van Noord D, Geelkerken RH, Harki J,
Berendsen SA, de Vries AC, et al. Validation of a score chart
to predict the risk of chronic mesenteric ischemia and
development of an updated score chart. United European
Gastroenterol J 2019;7:1261-70.
48. Oliva IB, Davarpanah AH, Rybicki FJ, et al. ACR Appropriateness Criteria (R) imaging of mesenteric ischemia.
Abdom Imaging 2013;38:714-9.
49. Moneta GL, Lee RW, Yeager RA, Taylor LM Jr, Porter JM.
Mesenteric duplex scanning: a blinded prospective study.
J Vasc Surg 1993;17:79-84.
50. Moneta GL, Yeager RA, Dalman R, Antonovic R, Hall LD,
Porter JM. Duplex ultrasound criteria for diagnosis of
splanchnic artery stenosis or occlusion. J Vasc Surg 1991;14:
511-8; discussion: 518-20.
51. Zwolak RM, Fillinger MF, Walsh DB, LaBombard FE,
Musson A, Darling CE, et al. Mesenteric and celiac duplex
scanning: a validation study. J Vasc Surg 1998;27:1078-87.
52. Gentile AT, Moneta GL, Lee RW, Masser PA, Taylor LM Jr,
Porter JM. Usefulness of fasting and postprandial duplex
ultrasound examinations for predicting high-grade superior mesenteric artery stenosis. Am J Surg 1995;169:476-9.
53. AbuRahma AF, Stone PA, Srivastava M, Dean LS, Keiffer T,
Hass SM, et al. Mesenteric/celiac duplex ultrasound

112S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

interpretation criteria revisited. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:428-36.
e6; discussion: 435-6.
54. van Petersen AS, Kolkman JJ, Meerwaldt R, Huisman AB,
van der Palen J, Zeebregts CJ, et al. Mesenteric stenosis,
collaterals, and compensatory blood ﬂow. J Vasc Surg
2014;60:111-9.e1-2.
55. van Petersen AS, Meerwaldt R, Kolkman JJ, Huisman AB, van
der Palen J, van Bockel JH, et al. The inﬂuence of respiration
on criteria for transabdominal duplex examination of the
splanchnic arteries in patients with suspected chronic
splanchnic ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:1603-11.e1-10.
56. AbuRahma AF, Scott Dean L. Duplex ultrasound interpretation criteria for inferior mesenteric arteries. Vascular
2012;20:145-9.
57. Pellerito JS, Revzin MV, Tsang JC, Greben CR, Naidich JB.
Doppler sonographic criteria for the diagnosis of inferior
mesenteric artery stenosis. J Ultrasound Med 2009;28:
641-50.
58. Wildermuth S, Leschka S, Alkadhi H, Marincek B. Multislice
CT in the pre- and postinterventional evaluation of
mesenteric perfusion. Eur Radiol 2005;15:1203-10.
59. Horton KM, Fishman EK. Multidetector CT angiography in
the diagnosis of mesenteric ischemia. Radiol Clin North Am
2007;45:275-88.
60. Schaefer PJ, Pfarr J, Trentmann J, Langer C, Siggelkow M,
Groß, et al. Comparison of noninvasive imaging modalities
for stenosis grading in mesenteric arteries 2013;185:628-34.
61. Kirkpatrick ID, Kroeker MA, Greenberg HM. Biphasic CT with
mesenteric CT angiography in the evaluation of acute
mesenteric ischemia: initial experience. Radiology
2003;229:91-8.
62. Wiesner W, Hauser A, Steinbrich W. Accuracy of multidetector row computed tomography for the diagnosis of
acute bowel ischemia in a non-selected study population.
Eur Radiol 2004;14:2347-56.
63. Menke J. Diagnostic accuracy of multidetector CT in acute
mesenteric ischemia: systematic review and meta-analysis.
Radiology 2010;256:93-101.
64. Yikilmaz A, Karahan OI, Senol S, Tuna IS, Akyildiz HY. Value
of multislice computed tomography in the diagnosis of
acute mesenteric ischemia. Eur J Radiol 2011;80:297-302.
65. Karkkainen JM, Saari P, Kettunen HP, Lehtimäki TT,
Vanninen R, Paajanen H, et al. Interpretation of abdominal
CT ﬁndings in patients who develop acute on chronic
mesenteric ischemia. J Gastrointest Surg 2016;20:791-802.
66. Hagspiel KD, Leung DA, Angle JF, Spinosa DJ, Pao DG, de
Lange EE, et al. MR angiography of the mesenteric vasculature. Radiol Clin North Am 2002;40:867-86.
67. Chow LC, Chan FP, Li KC. A comprehensive approach to MR
imaging of mesenteric ischemia. Abdom Imaging 2002;27:
507-16.
68. Shih MC, Angle JF, Leung DA, Cherry KJ, Harthun NL,
Matsumoto AH, et al. CTA and MRA in mesenteric ischemia:
part 2, Normal ﬁndings and complications after surgical
and endovascular treatment. AJR Am J Roentgenol
2007;188:462-71.
69. Baden JG, Racy DJ, Grist TM. Contrast-enhanced threedimensional magnetic resonance angiography of the
mesenteric vasculature. J Magn Reson Imaging 1999;10:
369-75.
70. Meaney JF, Prince MR, Nostrant TT, Stanley JC. Gadoliniumenhanced MR angiography of visceral arteries in patients
with suspected chronic mesenteric ischemia. J Magn
Reson Imaging 1997;7:171-6.
71. Carlos RC, Stanley JC, Stafford-Johnson D, Prince MR.
Interobserver variability in the evaluation of chronic

mesenteric ischemia with gadolinium-enhanced MR
angiography. Acad Radiol 2001;8:879-87.
72. Fraum TJ, Ludwig DR, Bashir MR, Fowler KJ. Gadoliniumbased contrast agents: A comprehensive risk assessment.
J Magn Reson Imaging 2017;46:338-53.
73. Balduf LM, Langsfeld M, Marek JM, Tullis MJ, Kasirajan K,
Matteson B. Complication rates of diagnostic angiography
performed by vascular surgeons. Vasc Endovasc Surg
2002;36:439-45.
74. Waugh JR, Sacharias N. Arteriographic complications in the
DSA era. Radiology 1992;182:243-6.
75. Egglin TK, O’Moore PV, Feinstein AR, Waltman AC. Complications of peripheral arteriography: a new system to
identify patients at increased risk. J Vasc Surg 1995;22:
787-94.
76. Ryer EJ, Oderich GS, Bower TC, Macedo TA, Vritska TJ,
Duncan AA, et al. Differences in anatomy and outcomes in
patients treated with open mesenteric revascularization
before and after the endovascular era. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:
1611-8.e2.
77. Margiotta A, Gray BH. Assessment of recurrent mesenteric
ischemia after stenting with a pressure wire. Vasc Med
2014;19:137-41.
78. Jain G, Pandit BN, Goyal M, Trehan VK. Percutaneous
retrograde revascularization of the occluded celiac artery
for chronic mesenteric ischemia using intravascular ultrasound guidance. Cardiovasc Interv Ther 2013;28:307-12.
79. Iwase K, Sando K, Ito T, Mikata S, Mizushima T, Kainuma S,
et al. Isolated dissecting aneurysm of the superior mesenteric artery: intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) images. Hepatogastroenterology 2007;54:1161-3.
80. Rundback JH, Shah PM, Wong J, Babu SC, Rozenblit G,
Poplausky MR. Livedo reticularis, rhabdomyolysis, massive
intestinal infarction, and death after carbon dioxide arteriography. J Vasc Surg 1997;26:337-40.
81. Zeller T, Rastan A, Sixt S. Chronic atherosclerotic mesenteric
ischemia (CMI). Vasc Med 2010;15:333-8.
82. Flis V, Mrdza B, Stirn B, Milotic F, Kobilica N, Bergauer A.
Revascularization of the superior mesenteric artery alone
for treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia. Wien Klin
Wochenschr 2016;128:109-13.
83. Atkins MD, Kwolek CJ, LaMuraglia GM, Brewster DC,
Chung TK, Cambria RP. Surgical revascularization versus
endovascular therapy for chronic mesenteric ischemia: a
comparative experience. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:1162-71.
84. Kasirajan K, O’Hara PJ, Gray BH, Hertzer NR, Clair DG,
Greenberg RK, et al. Chronic mesenteric ischemia: open
surgery versus percutaneous angioplasty and stenting.
J Vasc Surg 2001;33:63-71.
85. Blauw JTM, Pastoors HAM, Brusse-Keizer M, Beuk RJ,
Kolkman JJ, Geelkerken RH, et al. The impact of revascularisation on quality of life in chronic mesenteric ischemia.
Can J Gastroenterol Hepatology 2019;2019:7346013.
86. Rheudasil JM, Stewart MT, Schellack JV, Smith RB III,
Salam AA, Perdue GD. Surgical treatment of chronic
mesenteric arterial insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 1988;8:
495-500.
87. Baxter JP, Fayers PM, Bozzetti F, Kelly D, Joly F, Wanten G,
et al. An international study of the quality of life of adult
patients treated with home parenteral nutrition. Clin Nutr
2019;38:1788-96.
88. Veterans Affairs Total Parenteral Nutrition Cooperative
Study Group. Perioperative total parenteral nutrition in
surgical patients. N Engl J Med 1991;325:525-32.
89. Starker PM, LaSala PA, Askanazi J, Todd G, Hensle TW,
Kinney JM. The inﬂuence of preoperative total parenteral

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

113S

Volume 73, Number 1S
nutrition upon morbidity and mortality. Surg Gynecol
Obstet 1986;162:569-74.
90. Grimes CJ, Younathan MT, Lee WC. The effect of preoperative total parenteral nutrition on surgery outcomes. J Am
Diet Assoc 1987;87:1202-6.
91. Goldman MP, Reeve TE, Craven TE, Edwards MS, Corriere MA,
Hurie JB, et al. Endovascular treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia in the setting of occlusive superior mesenteric
artery lesions. Ann Vasc Surg 2017;38:29-35.
92. Sharafuddin MJ, Olson CH, Sun S, Kresowik TF, Corson JD.
Endovascular treatment of celiac and mesenteric arteries
stenoses: applications and results. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:
692-8.
93. Manunga J. Bifurcated stent technique: a viable option
for treatment of patients with unusual anatomy presenting with combined chronic mesenteric ischemia and
diffuse ischemic gastric ulcers. Vasc Endovasc Surg
2018;52:66-9.
94. Malgor RD, Oderich GS, McKusick MA, Misera S, Kalra M,
Duncan AA, et al. Results of single- and two-vessel
mesenteric artery stents for chronic mesenteric ischemia.
Ann Vasc Surg 2010;24:1094-101.
95. Wohlauer M, Kobeiter H, Desgranges P, Becquemin JP,
Cochennec F. Inferior mesenteric artery stenting as a novel
treatment for chronic mesenteric ischemia in patients with
an occluded superior mesenteric artery and celiac trunk.
Eur J Vasc Endovas Surg 2014;27:e21-3.
96. Schneider DB, Nelken NA, Messina LM, Ehrenfeld WK. Isolated inferior mesenteric artery revascularization for chronic
visceral ischemia. J Vasc Surg 1999;30:51-8.
97. Biebl M, Oldenburg WA, Paz-Fumagalli R, McKinney JM,
Hakaim AG. Endovascular treatment as a bridge to successful surgical revascularization for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. Am Surg 2004;70:994-8.
98. Peck MA, Conrad MF, Kwolek CJ, LaMuraglia GM,
Paruchuri V, Cambria RP. Intermediate-term outcomes of
endovascular treatment for symptomatic chronic mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2010;51:140-7.e1-2.
99. van Dijk LJD, Harki J, van Noord D, de Vries AC, Moelker A,
Verhagen HJM, et al. Detection of mesenteric ischemia by
means of endoscopic visible light spectroscopy after
luminal feeding. Gastrointest Endosc 2019;89:94-102.
100. van Dijk LJ, van Petersen AS, Moelker A. Vascular imaging of
the mesenteric vasculature. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol 2017;31:3-14.
101. Park WM, Cherry KJ Jr, Chua HK, Clark RC, Jenkins G,
Harmsen WS, et al. Current results of open revascularization
for chronic mesenteric ischemia: a standard for comparison. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:853-9.
102. Ryer EJ, Kalra M, Oderich GS, Duncan AA, Gloviczki P, Cha S,
et al. Revascularization for acute mesenteric ischemia.
J Vasc Surg 2012;55:1682-9.
103. Chaikof EL, Dalman RL, Eskandari MK, Jackson BM, Lee WA,
Mansour MA, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery practice
guidelines on the care of patients with an abdominal aortic
aneurysm. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:2-77.e2.
104. Derrow AE, Seeger JM, Dame DA, Carter RL, Ozaki CK,
Flynn TC, et al. The outcome in the United States after
thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair, renal artery
bypass, and mesenteric revascularization. J Vasc Surg
2001;34:54-61.
105. Huber TS, Wang JG, Derrow AE, dame DA, Ozaki CK,
Zelenock GB, et al. Experience in the United States with
intact abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. J Vasc Surg
2001;33:304-10; discussion: 310-1.
106. Mateo RB, O’Hara PJ, Hertzer NR, Mascha EJ, Beven EG,
Krajewski LP. Elective surgical treatment of symptomatic

chronic mesenteric occlusive disease: early results and late
outcomes. J Vasc Surg 1999;29:821-31.
107. McAfee MK, Cherry KJ Jr, Naessens JM, Pairolero PC,
Hallet JW Jr, Gloviczki P, et al. Inﬂuence of complete
revascularization on chronic mesenteric ischemia. Am J
Surg 1992;164:220-4.
108. Vandy FC, Sell KA, Eliason JL, Coleman DM, Rectenwald JE,
Stanley JC. Pancreaticoduodenal and gastroduodenal artery aneurysms associated with celiac artery occlusive disease. Ann Vasc Surg 2017;41:32-40.
109. Corey MR, Ergul EA, Cambria RP, Patel VI, Lancaster RT,
Kwolek CJ, et al. The presentation and management of
aneurysms of the pancreaticoduodenal arcade. J Vasc Surg
2016;64:1734-40.
110. Saedon M, Saratzis A, Karim A, Goodyear S. Endovascular
versus surgical revascularization for the management of
chronic mesenteric ischemia. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2015;49:
37-44.
111. Cai W, Li X, Shu C, Qiu J, Fang K, Li M, et al. Comparison of
clinical outcomes of endovascular versus open revascularization for chronic mesenteric ischemia: a meta-analysis.
Ann Vasc Surg 2015;29:934-40.
112. Pecoraro F, Rancic Z, Lachat M, Mayer D, Amann-Vesti B,
Pfammatter T, et al. Chronic mesenteric ischemia: critical
review and guidelines for management. Ann Vasc Surg
2013;27:113-22.
113. Gupta PK, Horan SM, Turaga KK, Miller WJ, Pipinos II.
Chronic mesenteric ischemia: endovascular versus open
revascularization. J Endovasc Ther 2010;17:540-9.
114. Zacharias N, Eghbalieh SD, Chang BB, Kreienberg PB,
Roddy SP, Taggert JB, et al. Chronic mesenteric ischemia
outcome analysis and predictors of endovascular failure.
J Vasc Surg 2016;63:1582-7.
115. Indes JE, Giacovelli JK, Muhs BE, Sosa JA, Dardik A. Outcomes of endovascular and open treatment for chronic
mesenteric ischemia. J Endovasc Ther 2009;16:624-30.
116. Erben Y, Jean RA, Protack CD, Chiu AS, Liu S, Sumpio BJ,
et al. Improved mortality in treatment of patients with
endovascular interventions for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:1805-12.
117. Lima FV, Kolte D, Kennedy KF, Louis DW, Abbot JD,
Soukas PA, et al. Endovascular versus surgical revascularization for chronic mesenteric ischemia: insights from the
National Inpatient Sample Database. JACC Cardiovasc
Interv 2017;10:2440-7.
118. Expert Panel on Interventional Radiology, Fidelman N,
AbuRahma AF, Cash BD, Kapoor BS, Knuttinen MG, et al.
ACR Appropriateness Criteria((R)) Radiologic management
of mesenteric ischemia. J Am Coll Radiol 2017;14:S266-71.
119. Pillai AK, Kalva SP, Hsu SL, Walker TG, Silberzweig JE,
Annamalai G, et al. Quality improvement guidelines for
mesenteric angioplasty and stent placement for the treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc Interv Radiol
2018;29:642-7.
120. Tallarita T, Oderich GS, Gloviczki P, Duncan AA, Kalra M,
Cha S, et al. Patient survival after open and endovascular
mesenteric revascularization for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:747-55; discussion: 754-5.
121. Lima FV, Kolte D, Louis DW, Kennedy KF, Abbott JD,
Soukas PA, et al. Thirty-day readmission after endovascular
or surgical revascularization for chronic mesenteric
ischemia: insights from the Nationwide Readmissions
Database. Vasc Med 2019;24:216-23.
122. Hogendoorn W, Hunink MG, Schlosser FJ, Moll FL, Muhs BE,
Sumpio BE. A comparison of open and endovascular
revascularization for chronic mesenteric ischemia in a
clinical decision model. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:715-25.e2.

114S

Huber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

123. Haben C, Park WM, Bena JF, Parodi FE, Lyden SP. Improving
midterm results justify the continued use of bare-metal
stents for endovascular therapy for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2020;71:111-20.
124. Cardin F, Fratta S, Inelmen EM, Sergi G, Manzato E,
Terranova C. Diagnosis of chronic mesenteric ischemia in
older patients: a structured review. Aging Clin Exp Res
2012;24:635-9.
125. Fleisher LA, Beckman JA, Brown KA, Calkins H, Chaikof EL,
Fleischmann KE, et al. ACC/AHA 2007 guidelines on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and care for noncardiac surgery: executive summary: a report of the American
College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Revise
the 2002 Guidelines on Perioperative Cardiovascular Evaluation for Noncardiac Surgery). Anesth Analg 2008;106:
685-712.
126. D’Cruz RT, Leong SW, Syn N, Tiwari A, Sannasi VV, Singh
Sidhu HR, et al. Endovascular treatment of cephalic arch
stenosis in brachiocephalic arteriovenous ﬁstulas: A systematic review and meta-analysis. J Vasc Access 2019;20:
345-55.
127. Haskal ZJ, Trerotola S, Dolmatch B, Schuman E, Altman S,
Mietling S, et al. Stent graft versus balloon angioplasty for
failing dialysis-access grafts. N Engl J Med 2010;362:494-503.
128. Daliri A, Grunwald C, Jobst B, Szuc-Farkas Z, Diehm NA,
Kickuth R, et al. Endovascular treatment for chronic
atherosclerotic occlusive mesenteric disease: is stenting
superior to balloon angioplasty? Vasa 2010;39:319-24.
129. Turba UC, Saad WE, Arslan B, Sabri SS, Trotter S, Angle JF,
et al. Chronic mesenteric ischaemia: 28-year experience of
endovascular treatment. Eur Radiol 2012;22:1372-84.
130. van Dijk LJD, Harki J, van Noord D, Verhagen HJM,
Kolkman JJ, Geelkerken RH, et al. Covered stents versus
Bare-metal stents in chronic atherosclerotic Gastrointestinal Ischemia (CoBaGI): study protocol for a randomized
controlled trial. Trials 2019;20:519.
131. Mendes BC, Oderich GS, Tallarita T, Kanamori KS, Kalra
DeMartino RR, et al. Superior mesenteric artery stenting
using embolic protection device for treatment of acute or
chronic mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:1071-8.
132. Robles-Martin ML, Reyes-Ortega JP, Rodriguez-Morata A.
A rare case of ischemia-reperfusion injury after mesenteric
revascularization. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2019;53:424-8.
133. Leenarts CA, Haagmans MJ, Bouwman LH, Sikkink CJ. Severe abdominal complaints after technical successful
endovascular treatment of chronic splanchnic ischemia.
J Nat Sci Biol Med 2018;9:100-2.
134. Oderich GS, Tallarita T, Gloviczki P, Duncan AA, Kalra M,
Misra S, et al. Mesenteric artery complications during angioplasty and stent placement for atherosclerotic chronic
mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:1063-71.
135. Shirasu T, Hosaka A, Okamoto H, Shigematsu K, Takeda Y,
Miyata T, et al. Bowel necrosis following endovascular
revascularization for chronic mesenteric ischemia: a case
report and review of the literature. BMC Gastroenterol
2013;13:118.
136. Klepczyk L, Keeling WB, Stone PA, Shames ML. Superior
mesenteric artery stent fracture producing stenosis and
recurrent chronic mesenteric ischemia: case report. Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2008;42:79-81.
137. Huynh C, Schwartz R. Symptomatic delayed aortic dissection after superior mesenteric artery stenting for chronic
mesenteric ischemia. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2017;51:377-9.
138. Robins JE, Young Z, Glocker RJ, Stoner MC, Doyle AJ.
Recurrent superior mesenteric artery stent fracture. Ann
Vasc Surg 2019;59. 306.e11-5.

139. De Martino RR, Eldrup-Jorgensen J, Nolan BW, Stone DH,
Adams J, Bertges DJ, et al. Perioperative management with
antiplatelet and statin medication is associated with
reduced mortality following vascular surgery. J Vasc Surg
2014;59:1615-21. 1621.e1.
140. Peeters Weem SM, van Haelst ST, den Ruijter HM, Moll FL,
de Borst GJ. Lack of evidence for dual antiplatelet therapy
after endovascular arterial procedures: a meta-analysis. Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2016;52:253-62.
141. Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaboration,
Baigent C, Blackwell L, Emberson J, Holland LE, Reith C,
et al. Efﬁcacy and safety of more intensive lowering of LDL
cholesterol: a meta-analysis of data from 170,000 participants in 26 randomised trials. Lancet 2010;376:1670-81.
142. Anand SS, Bosch J, Eikelboom JW, Connolly SJ, Eiaz R,
Widimsky P, et al. Rivaroxaban with or without aspirin in
patients with stable peripheral or carotid artery disease: an
international,
randomised,
double-blind,
placebocontrolled trial. Lancet 2018;391:219-29.
143. Capell WH, Bonaca MP, Nehler MR, Chen E, Kittelson JM,
Anand SS, et al. Rationale and design for the Vascular
Outcomes study of ASA along with rivaroxaban in endovascular or surgical limb revascularization for peripheral
artery disease (VOYAGER PAD). Am Heart J 2018;199:83-91.
144. Patel MR, Becker RC, Wojdyla DM, Emanuelsson H,
Hiatt WR, Horrow J, et al. Cardiovascular events in acute
coronary syndrome patients with peripheral arterial disease treated with ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel:
Data from the PLATO Trial. Eur J Prev Cardiol 2015;22:
734-42.
145. Barr J, Kokotsakis J, Velissarios K, Athanasiou T. Is the
thoracic aorta a safe site for the proximal anastomosis for
bypassing the mesenteric arteries in patients with chronic
mesenteric ischaemia? Interact Cardiovasc Thoracic Surg
2017;24:796-8.
146. Wang LL, Choong AM, Kovalic A, Jenkins J, Kruger A. Extraanatomic axillo-mesenteric reconstruction for chronic
mesenteric ischemia. Ann Vasc Sur 2016;31:206.e5-8.
147. Wyers MC, Powell RJ, Nolan BW, Cronenwett JL. Retrograde
mesenteric stenting during laparotomy for acute occlusive
mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:269-75.
148. Oderich GS, Macedo R, Stone DH, Woo EY, Panneton JM,
Resch T, et al. Multicenter study of retrograde open
mesenteric artery stenting through laparotomy for treatment of acute and chronic mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc
Surg 2018;68:470-80.e1.
149. Kihara TK, Blebea J, Anderson KM, Friedman D, Atnip RG.
Risk factors and outcomes following revascularization for
chronic mesenteric ischemia. Ann Vasc Surg 1999;13:37-44.
150. McMillan WD, McCarthy WJ, Bresticker MR, Pearce WH,
Schneider JR, Golan JF, et al. Mesenteric artery bypass:
objective patency determination. J Vasc Surg 1995;21:
729-40.
151. Davenport DL, Shivazad A, Endean ED. Short-term outcomes for open revascularization of chronic mesenteric
ischemia. Ann Vasc Surg 2012;26:447-53.
152. Scali ST, Chang CK, Raghinaru D, Daniels JM, Beck AW,
Feezor RJ, et al. Prediction of graft patency and mortality
after distal revascularization and interval ligation for hemodialysis access-related hand ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2013:
451-8.
153. Grotemeyer D, Iskandar F, Voshege M, Blondin D,
Pourhassan S, Grabitz K, et al. [Retrograde aortomesenteric
loop bypass behind the left renal pedicle ("French bypass")
in the treatment of acute and chronic mesenteric ischemia.
Clinical experiences and long-term follow-up in 27 patients]. Zentralbl Chir 2009;134:338-44.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Huber et al

115S

Volume 73, Number 1S
154. Mulorz J, Wagenhauser MU, Meyer-Janiszewski YK,
Düppers P, Simon F, Schelzig H, et al. Retrograde aortomesenteric bypass with left retrorenal route-"French
Bypass" in 16 cases of chronic mesenteric ischemia. Ann
Vasc Surg 2017;44:381-6.
155. Huerta CT, Orr NT, Tyagi SC, Badia DJ, Richie CD,
Endean ED. Direct retrograde bypass is preferable to
antegrade bypass for open mesenteric revascularization.
Ann Vasc Surg 2020;66:263-71.
156. Mell MW, Acher CW, Hoch JR, Tefera G, Turnipseed WD.
Outcomes after endarterectomy for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:1132-8.
157. Jimenez JG, Huber TS, Ozaki CK, Flynn TC, Berceli SA,
Lee WA, et al. Durability of antegrade synthetic aortomesenteric bypass for chronic mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc
Surg 2002;35:1078-84.
158. Al-Jundi W, Haqzad Y, Madbak K, Chan P. Ileocolic to right
iliac arterial transposition for the treatment of chronic
mesenteric ischemia. Int J Angiol 2013;22:259-62.
159. Harward TR, Brooks DL, Flynn TC, Seeger JM. Multiple organ
dysfunction after mesenteric artery revascularization. J Vasc
Surg 1993;18:459-67.
160. Oderich GS, Panneton JM, Macedo TA, Noel AA, Bower TC,
Lee RA, et al. Intraoperative duplex ultrasound of visceral
revascularizations: optimizing technical success and
outcome. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:684-91.
161. Wagenhäuser MU, Meyer-Janiszewski YK, Dueppers P,
Spin JM, Floros N, Schelzig H, et al. Chronic mesenteric
ischemia: patient outcomes using open surgical revascularization. Dig Surg 2017;34:340-9.
162. Davies AH, Hawdon AJ, Sydes MR, Thompson SG. Is duplex
surveillance of value after leg vein bypass grafting? Principal
results of the Vein Graft Surveillance Randomised Trial
(VGST). Circulation 2005;112:1985-91.
163. Norgren L, Hiatt WR, Dormandy JA, Nehler MR, Harris KA,
Fowkes FR, et al. Inter-Society Consensus for the management of peripheral arterial disease (TASC II). Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2007;33(Suppl 1):S1-75.
164. Schoch DM, LeSar CJ, Joels CS, Erdoes LS, Sprouse LR,
Fugate MW, et al. Management of chronic mesenteric
vascular insufﬁciency: an endovascular approach. J Am Coll
Surg 2011;212:668-75; discussion: 675-7.

165. Liem TK, Segall JA, Wei W, Landry GJ, Taylor LM, Moneta GL.
Duplex scan characteristics of bypass grafts to mesenteric
arteries. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:922-7; discussion: 927-8.
166. Zierler RE, Jordan WD, Lal BK, Mussa F, Leers S, Fulton J,
et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines
on follow-up after vascular surgery arterial procedures.
J Vasc Surg 2018;68:256-84.
167. Hodgkiss-Harlow K. Interpretation of visceral duplex scanning: before and after intervention for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. Semin Vasc Surg 2013;26:127-32.
168. Armstrong PA. Visceral duplex scanning: evaluation before
and after artery intervention for chronic mesenteric
ischemia. Perspect Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther 2007;19:
386-92; discussion: 393-4.
169. Soult MC, Wuamett JC, Ahanchi SS, Stout CL, Larion S,
Panneton JM. Duplex ultrasound criteria for in-stent restenosis of mesenteric arteries. J Vasc Surg 2016;64:1366-72.
170. Lopera JE, Trimmer CK, Lamba R, Suri R, Cura MA, ElMerhi FM, et al. MDCT angiography of mesenteric bypass
surgery for the treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia.
AJR Am J Roentgenol 2009;193:1439-45.
171. Blauw JT, Bulut T, Oderich GS, Geelkerken BR. Mesenteric
vascular treatment 2016: from open surgical repair to
endovascular revascularization. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol 2017;31:75-84.
172. Tallarita T, Oderich GS, Macedo TA, Gloviczki P, Misra S,
Duncan AA, et al. Reinterventions for stent restenosis in
patients treated for atherosclerotic mesenteric artery disease. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:1422-9.e1.
173. Kanamori KS, Oderich GS, Fatima J, Sarac T, Cha S, Kalra M,
et al. Outcomes of reoperative open or endovascular interventions to treat patients with failing open mesenteric
reconstructions for mesenteric ischemia. J Vasc Surg
2014;60:1612-9.e1-2.
174. Giswold ME, Landry GJ, Taylor LM Jr, Moneta GL. Outcomes
after redo procedures for failed mesenteric revascularization. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2004;38:315-9.

Submitted Sep 19, 2020; accepted Oct 15, 2020.


