The Society for Vascular Surgery: Clinical practice
guidelines for the surgical placement and
maintenance of arteriovenous hemodialysis access
Anton N. Sidawy, MD, MPH,a Lawrence M. Spergel, MD,b Anatole Besarab, MD,c Michael Allon, MD,d
William C. Jennings, MD,e Frank T. Padberg Jr, MD,f M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,g
Victor M. Montori, MD, MSc,g Ann M. O’Hare, MD,h Keith D. Calligaro, MD,i Robyn A. Macsata, MD,a
Alan B. Lumsden, MD,j and Enrico Ascher, MD,k Washington, DC; San Francisco, Calif; Detroit, Mich;
Birmingham, Ala; Tulsa, Okla; Newark, NJ; Rochester, Minn; Philadelphia, Pa; Houston, Tex; and Brooklyn, NY
Recognizing the impact of the decision making by the dialysis access surgeon on the successful placement of autogenous
arteriovenous hemodialysis access, the Society for Vascular Surgery assembled a multispecialty panel to develop practice
guidelines in arteriovenous access placement and maintenance with the aim of maximizing the percentage and functionality of autogenous arteriovenous accesses that are placed. The Society commissioned the Knowledge and Encounter
Research Unit of the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota, to systematically review the available
evidence in three main areas provided by the panel: timing of referral to access surgeons, type of access placed, and
effectiveness of surveillance. The panel then formulated practice guidelines in seven areas: timing of referral to the access
surgeon, operative strategies to maximize the placement of autogenous arteriovenous accesses, first choice for the
autogenous access, choice of arteriovenous access when a patient is not a suitable candidate for a forearm autogenous
access, the role of monitoring and surveillance in arteriovenous access management, conversion of a prosthetic
arteriovenous access to a secondary autogenous arteriovenous access, and management of the nonfunctional or failed
arteriovenous access. For each of the guidelines, the panel stated the recommendation or suggestion, discussed the
evidence or opinion upon which the recommendation or suggestion was made, detailed the values and preferences that
influenced the group’s decision in formulating the relevant guideline, and discussed technical remarks related to the
particular guideline. In addition, detailed information is provided on various configurations of autogenous and
prosthetic accesses and technical tips related to their placement. ( J Vasc Surg 2008;48:2S-25S.)

Autogenous arteriovenous (AV) access for hemodialysis has been shown to be superior to prosthetic graft or
catheter access in terms of patient morbidity and mortality.
In addition, the maintenance of autogenous AV access is
less expensive than prosthetic conduits.1-5 Although several
reports have shown an autogenous AV access is feasible in
most patients in the United States, construction and utilization rates for autogenous AV access for hemodialysis in
this country are dramatically lower than in Europe and
From the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Washington, DC,a Dialysis
Management Medical Group, San Francisco,b Division of Nephrology
and Hypertension, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit,c Division of Nephrology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,d Department of
Surgery, The University of Oklahoma, Tulsa,e Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Medicine and Dentists of New
Jersey, Newark,f Division of Preventive, Occupational and Aerospace
Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,g Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San
Francisco,h Section of Vascular Surgery, Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia,i Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,j and Maimonides Medical
Center, Brooklyn.k
STATEMENT OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST: These authors report that
they have no conflicts of interest with the sponsor of this supplement
article or products discussed in this article.
Correspondence: Anton N. Sidawy, MD, 50 Irving Street, NW (112),
Washington, DC 20422 (e-mail: ansidawy@aol.com).
0741-5214/$34.00
Copyright © 2008 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of The Society for
Vascular Surgery.
doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2008.08.042

2S

Japan.6,7 Nevertheless, rates of autogenous AV access
within the United States have improved in the last several
years. This important progress likely reflects the effect of
national efforts to increase autogenous access placement,
such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS)–sponsored AV Fistula First Breakthrough Initiative
(FFBI) and the National Kidney Foundation (NKF)-Kidney
Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (KDOQI) Clinical Practice Guidelines,8,9 as well as improved preoperative evaluation, vessel mapping, and accepted priority for autogenous
access. The development of alternative and innovative approaches to autogenous AV access construction has also
contributed to wider utilization of autogenous access in
this country.10
Ten years ago, in October 1997, the NKF-KDOQI
Clinical Practice Guidelines for Vascular Access were published in an effort to increase the placement of autogenous
AV access and to prolong the use of existing access by
detection of, and timely intervention for, dysfunction.
These original guidelines and subsequent versions stress
proactive identification of patients with progressive kidney
disease, identification and protection of potential native
access construction sites by members of the health care
team and patients, and the development of a multifaceted
quality assurance program to detect at-risk vascular access,
track complication rates, and implement procedures that
maximize access longevity.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

The original guidelines recommended that autogenous
AV access be constructed in at least 50% of all new renal
failure patients electing to receive hemodialysis as their
initial form of renal replacement therapy, with the expectation that ultimately, 40% of prevalent patients would be
receiving their hemodialysis through an autogenous AV
access.11 The 2006 updated KDOQI Guidelines raised this
benchmark for minimal use of autogenous access in prevalent hemodialysis patients to 65%.9
In June 2003, a coalition consisting of the CMS, the
End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Networks, the Institute
for Healthcare Improvement (IHI), and other key provider
representatives jointly recommended adoption of a National Vascular Access Improvement Initiative (NVAII).
The initial goal of this initiative was to increase the number
of autogenous AV accesses placed and functioning in suitable patients to meet or even surpass the targets set by
NKF-KDOQI guidelines.
The NVAII was originally intended to run through
2003; but because of early success in reaching the thenKDOQI goal of 40% prevalence by August 2005, CMS
formally expanded its commitment by upgrading the initiative to what CMS called the AV Fistula First Breakthrough
Initiative (FFBI), with a new goal of 66% by 2009.10 The
FFBI Work Group identified clinical and organizational
changes that could be adapted and applied locally by nephrologists, dialysis personnel, access surgeons, and patients
to increase the production and use of autogenous AV
access. They also identified system changes that could be
implemented at a national level to encourage the placement
of autogenous AV accesses at a higher rate than prosthetic
AV accesses and catheters, for example, reimbursement for
preoperative vessel mapping to identify adequate vessels for
use for autogenous access construction. As a result of the
efforts of the FFBI, the prevalence of autogenous access
had increased by ⬎50%, from 32% to 49%, by January
2008.
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS), representing
⬎2500 vascular surgeons, recognizes the effect of decision
making by the individual vascular access surgeon on the
construction and utilization of access for hemodialysis.
Therefore, the SVS approved and sponsored two initiatives:
(1) to develop and publish reporting standards for AV
hemodialysis access and (2) to develop practice guidelines
for AV hemodialysis access.
To accomplish the first initiative, the SVS charged a
multidisciplinary committee to develop standardized definitions related to AV access procedures, patency, and complications. Standardization of terminology facilitates more
meaningful comparisons between published reports of
long-term patency and complications of AV access procedures. These recommendations were published in the Journal of Vascular Surgery in 2002.12
To accomplish the second initiative, SVS assembled a
multispecialty expert panel, consisting of vascular access
surgeons and nephrologists, to develop clinical practice
guidelines for AV access placement. In an ongoing effort to
optimize the placement of autogenous AV access in pa-

Sidawy et al 3S

tients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and ESRD, these
guidelines are directed toward AV access surgeons and
specialists (such as interventional radiologists, nephrologists, and cardiologists) as the providers whose ultimate
operative decision determines the type of access placed.
The panel’s recommendations have culminated in the following practice guidelines: optimal timing and indications
for referral of patients with advanced CKD, defined by a
Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) glomerular
filtration rate (GFR) of ⬎20 to 25 mL/min, to a vascular
access surgeon, preoperative evaluation for AV access, configuration and strategies to optimize autogenous AV access
placement, assessment of functionality of AV access, and
treatment of AV access thrombosis.
To help the panel formulate its recommendations, the
SVS used the help of The Knowledge and Encounter
Research Unit (KER) of the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota. This independent group performed a systematic study of the available evidence in three
main areas provided by the panel: timing of referral to
access surgeons, type of access placed, and effectiveness of
surveillance.13-15 The panel adopted the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation
(GRADE) scheme to formulate these recommendations
because this system separates the strength of recommendations from the quality of the evidence.16 This separation
informs guideline users (eg, patients, clinicians, and policy
makers) of factors other than evidence, such as values and
preferences if applicable, and clinical and social circumstances that played a role in formulating these recommendations.
These systematic literature reviews revealed a paucity of
high-quality evidence in this area, and many of the recommendations herein are based on observational studies, unsystematic observations, and consensus of our committee.
Nevertheless, some of these recommendations were graded
as strong (GRADE 1) because of the values and preferences
brought to bear by the committee and are explicitly described in this article. In addition, because of the multidisciplinary nature of the committee, these recommendations
reflect consensus among access surgeons and nephrologists. Although by spearheading this project the SVS aimed
to provide a structure to form the underpinning of patient
evaluation and decision making by the access surgeon, it is
important to emphasize that these recommendations are
not intended to supersede the surgeon’s final judgment
regarding the management of the individual patient.
1. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Timing of
referral to AV access surgeon and timing of
placement of permanent vascular access
We recommend that patients with advanced CKD
disease (late stage 4, MDRD <20 to 25 mL/min) who
have elected hemodialysis as their choice of renal replacement therapy be referred to an access surgeon in
order to evaluate and plan construction of AV access
(GRADE 1 recommendation, very low-quality evidence).

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

4S Sidawy et al

A. If at the conclusion of the evaluation, upper extremity arterial and venous anatomy is adequate
for an autogenous AV access, such access should
be constructed as soon as possible to allow it
enough time to mature and undergo further interventions that may be needed to ensure that the
access is ready to be used when dialysis is initiated.
B. If a prosthetic access is to be constructed, this
should be delayed until just before the need for
dialysis.
1.1. Evidence
A systematic review of the literature demonstrated that
the evidence on the appropriate timing of referring patients
to vascular surgery is very scarce.13 Two observational
studies demonstrated that ⬍5% of patients who were seen
by a vascular surgeon ⬎1 month before hemodialysis was
initiated used a catheter as their first access17 and that,
compared with late access construction (ⱕ1 month of
hemodialysis), early access construction (ⱖ4 months before
hemodialysis) was associated with lower risk of death and
sepsis, with relative risks (RRs) of 0.76 (95% confidence
interval [CI], 0.58-1.00) and 0.57 (95% CI, 0.41-0.79),
respectively.18 Introducing catheter use and sepsis into the
mortality model rendered the association nonsignificant. It
is difficult to predict the timing of hemodialysis onset in an
individual patient19; however, observations of the committee members suggest that access placement ⬍6 months
before initiation of hemodialysis is unlikely to allow adequate time for autogenous access maturation. Timely discussion and consultation could help avoid these adverse
outcomes.
In addition, according to unsystematic observations
and consensus of our committee, prosthetic AV accesses
should be placed no earlier than 3 to 6 weeks before an
anticipated need for hemodialysis in patients who are not
candidates for autogenous AV accesses. This is because the
lifespan of prosthetic accesses is limited by venous outflow
stenosis, which can develop at any time after access placement, regardless of when hemodialysis is initiated through
the access. In addition, the prosthetic access only needs 3 to
6 weeks for incorporation in the surrounding tissue, and at
many centers, a prosthetic access is used ⱕ2 weeks of
placement or earlier, depending on the type of prosthetic
access. This recommendation is consistent with those of
KDOQI and the FFBI.8,9
1.2. Values and preferences
In formulating a strong recommendation despite the
very low-quality evidence, the committee placed a higher
value on avoiding harm associated with late access construction and a lower value on potential harms and costs
associated with early referral and early access placement.
Early referral should encourage placement of autogenous
access; however, whether the autogenous access prevalence
rate can be increased to reach 66% by 2009, as desired by
CMS,8 is currently uncertain.

1.3. Technical remarks
It is generally agreed that all new hemodialysis patients
should have the most optimal permanent vascular access
that can be successfully used at the time of initiation of
dialysis therapy. For this to happen, the patient must see a
nephrologist before initiation of dialysis to facilitate the
referral to an access surgeon, and the surgery must be
performed in enough time before dialysis initiation to allow
for maturation, revision, and repeat procedures if the first
attempt is unsuccessful.
Referral for initial vascular access placement should
ideally occur approximately 6 months in advance of the
anticipated need for dialysis. Because of the difficulty of
predicting timing of onset of hemodialysis in an individual
patient, it is recommended that referral for initial access
placement should occur when the estimated GFR (eGFR)
level drops ⬍20 to 25 mL/min/1.73 m2 (stage 4 CKD) in
a patient expected to start hemodialysis. However, referral
decisions should be individualized to reflect differences in
rates of actual and predicted decline in eGFR, in the competing risk of death, and in patient preferences.
In the United States, most patients who start dialysis do
not have a functioning permanent vascular access (autogenous or prosthetic) in place at the time dialysis is initiated, and
thus a catheter must be used for dialysis until permanent access
is placed and ready to be used.20,21 Many patients are not
referred to a nephrologist until their kidney disease is already
quite advanced, allowing little opportunity for vascular access
placement before dialysis is initiated.17,22,23
Not surprisingly, patients who are referred to nephrologists before the initiation of dialysis are more likely to
undergo vascular access surgery before dialysis begins.24
More frequent utilization of nephrology care before the
initiation of dialysis also appears to be associated with a
lower risk of catheter use at the initiation of dialysis.24
Avorn et al24 found that patients referred to a nephrologist
⬍90 days before the initiation of dialysis were approximately 40% more likely to undergo catheter placement
compared with those who were seen ⬎90 days before the
initiation of dialysis. Frequency of nephrology care was also
important. Those who had fewer than three visits to a
nephrologist within the year before dialysis initiation were
40% more likely to have a catheter than those who had three
or more visits.24
In addition, predialysis nephrology referral is associated
with a shorter duration of catheter use after the initiation of
dialysis and with a greater likelihood of autogenous access
placement.25 Nevertheless, even among patients referred to
a nephrologist well in advance of the need for dialysis, most
start dialysis with a catheter rather than a permanent vascular access.20,22,25 Therefore, the need for CKD/pre-ESRD
programs is crucial to ensuring that patients are evaluated
early to receive the optimal renal replacement therapy and
permanent hemodialysis access (if hemodialysis is chosen).
The average maturation time of a new autogenous
access is 2 to 4 months.26-30 In addition, a patient whose
access fails to mature sufficiently to support hemodialysis

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

needs to undergo additional procedures to promote autogenous access maturation or place a new vascular access, or
both. Hemodialysis patients are usually dialyzed through a
central venous catheter while this process is completed.
Catheter use is associated with bacteremia and inadequate
dialysis, which is time/use-related.31 Catheter use at initiation of dialysis is also associated with higher subsequent
mortality.32-34 Furthermore, mortality is higher among
patients who receive dialyses continuously through a catheter than among those who switch from a catheter to
autogenous or prosthetic permanent access.35 It should be
noted that it is unclear from these studies whether catheter
use directly causes higher mortality or whether catheter use
is a marker for other conditions and situations associated
with increased mortality risk.
In addition to central vein preservation, peripheral upper extremity veins should also be preserved for future
placement of permanent vascular access; therefore whenever possible, hand veins should be used in preference to
arm veins for phlebotomy and intravenous catheter placement in patients with CKD, despite the increased discomfort for patients. Particular care should be taken to avoid
cannulation of the cephalic vein in the nondominant arm.
When arm veins must be used, the site should be rotated.
Percutaneous intravenous central catheters (PICCs) should
not be used in patients with evidence of renal dysfunction
until their renal status is evaluated.
Because of low rates of autogenous access placement
among incident hemodialysis patients, time required for
successful autogenous access maturation, and associations
of catheter use with adverse outcomes among hemodialysis
patients, there is ready consensus that patients with CKD
should be referred for autogenous access placement well
before the initiation of dialysis. However, scant information
is available to suggest exactly how far in advance of the need
for dialysis and when in relation to their level of renal
function and course of their CKD patients should be referred for initial AV access construction. Consequently,
although there is broad agreement among different national guidelines that timely referral for autogenous access
construction is important, specific recommendations are
opinion-based and vary considerably, as indicated by various published guidelines around the world.8,10,11,36,37,38
Some are summarized below:
United States KDOQI guidelines.11
I. Guideline 1: Patient preparation for permanent hemodialysis access:
1.3. Patients should have a functional permanent access at
the initiation of dialysis therapy.
● 1.3.1. A fistula should be placed at least 6 months

before the anticipated start of hemodialysis (HD)
treatments. This timing allows for access evaluation
and additional time for revision to ensure a working
fistula is available at initiation of dialysis therapy. (B)
● 1.3.2. A graft should, in most cases, be placed at least

3 to 6 weeks before the anticipated start of HD ther-

Sidawy et al 5S

apy. Some newer graft materials may be cannulated
immediately after placement. (B)
And these guidelines also stated:11
II. Clinical practice recommendations for guideline 1:
patient preparation for permanent hemodialysis access.
● 1.3. Patients with CKD stage 5 should be educated on
the risks and benefits associated with catheters and strongly
encouraged to allow the evaluation for and creation of a
fistula for long-term access when appropriate. Such discussions with the patient should be initiated months before the
anticipated start of dialysis therapy.
The FFBI. Referral to surgeon for evaluation for access by stage 4 CKD (GFR ⬍30), with placement of AVF
soon thereafter (GFR 20 to 30), or based on progression of
renal disease.8,10
British Renal Association. The following is stated
under guideline 7-Vascular Access of The British Renal
Association C:37
7.4. Patients should undergo fistula creation between 6
and 12 months before hemodialysis is expected to start to
allow time for adequate maturation of the fistula or time for
a revision procedure if the fistula fails or is inadequate for
use.
Canadian Society of Nephrology. Guidelines from
the Canadian Society of Nephrology indicate:38
A. Establish autogenous AV access when the patient has a
creatinine clearance of 15 to 20 mL/min or serum
creatinine of 300 to 500 ␮mol/L, depending on the
size and weight of the patient.
B. Place dialysis prosthetic access at least 3 to 6 weeks
before an anticipated need for hemodialysis.
Caring for Australians with Renal Insufficiency
(CARI). Guidelines from Caring for Australians With Renal Insufficiency state:36
A. All patients, and especially those with comorbid conditions, should be referred to a vascular access surgeon
well in advance of the anticipated need for hemodialysis. The exact timing depends on patient-related factors
and local facilities.
B. Several procedures may be required to establish access
and maturation of access may be prolonged in some
patients.
C. AV grafts should be placed only shortly before anticipated use.
Preoperative evaluation. Establishing functional AV
access requires careful preoperative evaluation and planning. This process starts by early identification of individuals with renal insufficiency for prompt surgical consultation
to select the best extremity and site for an autogenous AV
access. A very important determinant of the success of AV
access is an appropriate and detailed preoperative history
and examination, followed by vessel mapping.
Patient history specific to vascular access selection. Several historical factors have been associated with increased
difficulty in establishing a functional AV access and partic-

6S Sidawy et al

ularly autogenous AV access. These include diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, severe congestive heart
failure, advanced age, and female gender.29,39-40 However,
recent reports have demonstrated that successful outcomes
are possible in several of these groups.41,42 All patients
should be viewed as potential candidates for autogenous
AV access construction, although some individuals with a
difficult access extremity will require more inventive or
complex access procedures.42-44 Repeated thrombotic
events may prompt screening for a hypercoagulable state.45
Several risk factors such as homocystine and factor VIII are
commonly elevated in patients with renal failure. Chronic
anticoagulation with warfarin carries significant risk in these
patients and should probably be considered only for those
individuals with a clearly defined hypercoagulable
state.46,47 Clopidogrel is frequently used in the dialysis
population. In prosthetic accesses, it was associated with a
higher rate of bleeding and no statistical improvement in
graft patency.48-50
The patient’s surgical history, such as failed access
procedures, PICCs, pacemakers, defibrillators, arterial
catheters, cardiac surgery, or trauma often play an important role in AV access planning. Consideration of the
patient’s dominant arm or incapacitation of one extremity
from a previous stroke may influence, but not dictate, an
AV access decision. Placement of an autogenous AV access
is particularly important in patients with chronic infections,
recurrent skin diseases, and immunosuppression. Finally,
the patient’s overall medical condition, social support
structure, and life expectancy should be considered when
considering long-term vascular access.
Physical examination specific to vascular access selection. Patients with forearm eczema or extensive solar keratosis and those older patients with particularly thin and
fragile skin may be better suited to upper arm autogenous
AV access. Neurologic examination should record the presence of neuropathy and describe motor or sensory abnormalities. Evidence of congestive heart failure, such as neck
vein distension, should be addressed and cardiac function
maximized before surgery.
Unfortunately, most individuals in the United States
begin chronic dialysis through a central venous dialysis
catheter. The site and location of these existing and previous catheters should be recorded. In addition, defibrillators
and pacemakers often use the subclavian vein and are even
more likely to be associated with clinically important central
venous stenosis or occlusion. If permanent access is planned
on the side of a previous central catheter, imaging of the
central veins may be needed because any significant stenoses may produce venous hypertension due to markedly
increased venous blood flow from an upper extremity AV
access.51
Arterial examination. The experienced surgeon’s examination, including identification of healthy brachial, radial, and ulnar arteries, is the single most important aspect
of arterial inflow evaluation. Palpation of healthy vessels
should find the arteries soft, easily compressible, and their
pulse equal bilaterally. The Allen’s test confirms a patent

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

palmar arch and is particularly important when an autogenous AV access at the wrist is planned. Bilateral extremity
blood pressures should be recorded and found to be equal.
Sites of previous arterial catheters or arterial donations for
coronary artery bypass grafting should be identified; the
radial artery harvested for coronary revascularization is
identified by the characteristic longitudinal incision over
the anterior aspect of the forearm. Further investigations
are indicated if the history or physical findings suggest an
arterial inflow abnormality.
Venous examination. The venous system should be
inspected with and without a venous pressure tourniquet in
place. Outflow veins should be uninterrupted and distensible. The presence of enlarged superficial veins on the chest
wall or arm edema may suggest central venous stenosis or
occlusion. Enlarged collateral veins are pathognomonic of a
segmental venous occlusion.52 Arm diameter in obese patients may limit access selection or dictate the need for primary
or staged vein elevation or a transposition procedure.
Noninvasive ultrasound imaging: a critical supplement
to the clinical examination. Ultrasound venous mapping is
of critical importance in these patients, not only for identifying preferred autogenous access sites but also for evaluating the depth of venous structures.53 Utilization of autogenous veins for construction of AV access is enhanced
by the identification of clinically “buried” veins as well as
unexpected venous occlusions or stenoses.47 Some obese
individuals have deep forearm veins that are quite adequate
for dialysis if transposed or superficialized. Further, if distal
arterial inflow is inadequate and the venous system is found
adequate by ultrasound imaging, functional access can often be established by using proximal arterial inflow and
establishing retrograde forearm autogenous AV access
flow.46 Although adequate arterial inflow can usually be
determined by a clinical examination, arterial abnormalities
such as the high brachial bifurcation are relatively common,
easily identified by ultrasound examination, and may substantially affect preoperative planning; this is especially relevant when considering a forearm prosthetic access site. An
inadequate arterial lumen may also adversely affect outcome and is easily determined by combining the arterial
ultrasound examination with the venous survey.
Arterial procedural evaluations specific to vascular
access. Noninvasive evaluation. A normal clinical arterial
examination without a history suggesting inflow occlusive
disease may not require a further presurgical evaluation of
the arterial inflow. However, if arterial inflow is not clearly
normal, duplex ultrasound (DU) imaging, performed simultaneously with vein mapping, will aid in identifying
stenotic segments and determine arterial diameter in addition to calculation of arterial flow.54,55 The minimal arterial
lumen diameter is important. Studies have shown both 1.5
mm and 2.0 mm to be the minimally acceptable internal
arterial diameters for successful autogenous AV access,
although 2.0 mm seems to be the more commonly accepted limit in adults.56,57
A significant number of patients are poor candidates for
a radiocephalic (wrist) AV access from either an arterial or

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

venous standpoint. Goldstein et al58 reported that ultrasound examination found 50% of patients studied had
inadequate arterial inflow to support a radiocephalic autogenous AV access at the wrist. Segmental Doppler pressures
may be helpful; however, vessel calcification in diabetic
patients may preclude accurate measurement of these pressures. Digital pressures, transcutaneous oximetry, and resistance index measurements have also been suggested as
measures of inflow adequacy and may be helpful in selected
cases. Calculating the resistance index or simple ultrasound
observation of changes in the arterial waveform during a
clinched fist maneuver (reactive hyperemia) predicts the
vessel’s ability to accommodate the anticipated marked
increase in flow required for a successful AV access.54,59
Arteriography. Arteriography may be useful in patients
with significant peripheral vascular disease, particularly in
those individuals with suspected proximal arterial occlusive
lesions where pre-AV access interventional procedures
might both identify and treat the problem site, gaining
adequate arterial inflow for the eventual autogenous AV
access. In patients nearing dialysis, the risk of contrastinduced nephropathy must be carefully weighed against the
need for an AV access that will mature when needed by the
time of dialysis initiation. Renal protective strategies such as
hydration, limiting contrast, or using carbon dioxide as
contrast agents minimize risk to the patient.60 Administration of bicarbonate or N-acetyl cysteine may further moderate the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy.61,62 Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) for preoperative
arterial vascular access evaluation has not replaced arteriography or ultrasound imaging but may be useful and appropriate in selected cases. Gadolinium may cause nephrogenic
systemic fibrosis in patients with advanced CKD or dialysis
and therefore should be used only after carefully weighing
the risks and benefits of alternative imaging studies.63
Venous procedural evaluations specific to vascular access. Noninvasive studies. As discussed the preceding clinical examination, ultrasound imaging has become the common standard in preparation for an AV access
procedure.54,64 An ultrasound scan is optimally performed
by the surgeon during the initial office visit or it may be
done by a technologist.65 Ultrasound examination discovers potential autogenous AV access sites that are overlooked by physical examination. Silva et al57 found ultrasound evaluation increased AV fistula construction from
14% to 63%. Ultrasound venous mapping, which is performed with and without a venous pressure tourniquet in
place, evaluates vein diameter, patency, continuity, and
distensibility of the planned venous outflow conduit. Both
distensibility and venous diameter have been found to
independently predict autogenous AV access success.56,57
For the surgeon performing the operative planning,
ultrasound offers simultaneous visualization of both the
deep and superficial venous systems along with adjacent
arteries. Brief, preoperative ultrasound mapping, just before the surgical procedure, is often helpful in confirming
available vessels targeted for the procedure and marking the
anticipated surgical site.

Sidawy et al 7S

Contrast venography. This procedure may be used for
peripheral vein mapping, particularly when ultrasound imaging is not available. When history or physical findings
suggest a central stenosis or occlusion, venography is superior to ultrasound imaging, offers the best opportunity to
both identify and treat these central lesions, and is relatively
safe. Asif et al66 found only one patient of 25 studied
required dialysis ⱕ4 weeks after vein mapping with lowdiluted osmolarity contrast. MRA has been reported in preoperative central venous imaging but has not been shown to be more
effective than standard venography.67 As in arterial evaluations,
MRA has been rarely used in venous AV access planning. Although promising, these early reports of MRA mapping should
be considered preliminary.68-69
2. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Operative
strategies to optimize the placement of autogenous
arteriovenous accesses
We recommend optimizing the placement of autogenous accesses using the following operative strategies:
A. AV accesses are placed as far distally in the upper
extremity as possible to preserve proximal sites for
future accesses (GRADE 1 recommendation, very
low-quality evidence).
B. When possible, autogenous AV accesses should be
considered before prosthetic arteriovenous accesses
are placed. These autogenous access configurations
should include, in order of preference, the use of
direct AV anastomosis, venous transpositions, and
translocations (GRADE 1 recommendation, very
low-quality evidence).
C. Upper extremity access sites are used first, with the
nondominant arm given preference over the dominant arm only when access opportunities are equal
in both extremities (GRADE 1 recommendation,
very low-quality evidence).
D. Lower extremity and body wall access sites are used
only after all upper extremity access sites have been
exhausted (GRADE 1 recommendation, very lowquality evidence).
2.1. Evidence
These recommendations were formulated mainly according to unsystematic observations and consensus of our
committee because there is paucity of high-quality evidence
to support them except what is cited to support recommendations 3 and 4.
2.2. Values and preferences
The operative strategies recommended by the committee place high value on optimizing patient outcomes such
as preventing death, access infection, and achieving a
longer period of time with successful dialysis. In addition,
the committee took into account patient comfort by recommending that the nondominant upper extremity be
used first when access opportunities are equal. This allows
the dialysis patient to use the dominant side to pursue

8S Sidawy et al

various functions while undergoing dialysis; however, the
best extremity for autogenous access should be used, regardless of dominance. In recommending distal upper extremity access sites, these recommendations place high
value on the preservation of proximal veins for future access
placement.
In addition, in recommending the use of autogenous
accesses first, except as stated in recommendation 4, the
committee did not favor the use of prosthetic access despite
features that may favor its use such as higher reimbursement, ready availability, and shorter time to first use. However, the committee would like to point out that in the push
to perform all autogenous AV access, substandard veins are
sometimes used for autogenous accesses, taking a long time
to mature and thereby subjecting the patient to placement
of catheters for hemodialysis. Many believe that catheters
should be avoided at all cost, even if a prosthetic AV access
is used, which makes the construction of autogenous access
desirable but not always optimal.19 In addition, the committee placed higher value on avoiding infection, arterial
steal, ischemia, and other complications known to occur
with higher frequency in association with lower extremity
access placement.
2.3. Technical remarks
Various configurations of AV accesses, autogenous and
prosthetic, are described at the end of this document. We
describe here the strategies we suggest to optimize the use
of various access sites in order to provide the hemodialysis
patient with the safest and the longest life span on hemodialysis possible.
Forearm. For autogenous forearm access, use of the
cephalic vein is preferred to the basilic vein secondary to its
ease of access for dialysis, with minimal need for dissection,
long incisions, and possible need for vein transpositions.
Possible sites of arterial inflow include the entire radial
artery from the posterior branch to its junction with the
ulnar at the brachial bifurcation, and the brachial artery.
The ulnar artery is usually not the first arterial option due to
its distance from the cephalic vein.
The access is placed as distally in the forearm as possible
where a normal palpable pulse is identified to preserve more
proximal sites of inflow for future accesses. Therefore, in
patients with a palpable posterior branch of the radial artery
pulse, an autogenous posterior radial branch– cephalic direct wrist access (snuffbox) should be considered. In patients with a nonpalpable posterior branch of the radial
artery pulse but a palpable radial artery pulse at the wrist, an
autogenous radial– cephalic direct wrist access is performed. In either of these cases, if the cephalic vein is felt to
be too deep or is not close to the radial artery in the wrist,
an autogenous radial– cephalic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial artery pulse is nonpalpable, the ulnar
may provide an alternative distal inflow site; alternatively,
the entire trunk, but especially the proximal segment of
either the radial or the ulnar artery, may provide an arterial
source. In instances where the radial or ulnar artery pulse is
not palpable at the wrist but the brachial artery pulse is, an

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

autogenous brachial– cephalic forearm looped transposition can be performed.
When the cephalic vein is not considered adequate for
an autogenous AV access, the forearm basilic vein is the
preferred alternative. Secondary to its posteromedial location in the forearm, a transposition is always required to
provide safe access for hemodialysis. Possible sites of arterial
inflow include the entire trunk of the radial or ulnar arteries,
or the brachial artery. Use of the posterior branch of the
radial artery is usually difficult for this procedure secondary
to the distance from the basilic vein.
Similar to the cephalic vein, the AV access is placed as
distally in the arm as possible where a palpable pulse is
identified to preserve more proximal sites of inflow for
future accesses. Therefore, when a radial artery pulse is
palpable, an autogenous radial– basilic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial artery pulse is nonpalpable
but the ulnar artery pulse is palpable, an autogenous ulnar–
basilic forearm transposition is performed. If the radial and
ulnar artery pulses are nonpalpable at the wrist, a more
proximal segment can be used if it is patent. Finally, if the
brachial artery pulse is palpable, an autogenous brachial–
basilic forearm looped transposition is performed.
When forearm autogenous accesses are exhausted, the
surgeon and patient may opt to perform a prosthetic forearm access before proceeding to the upper arm to perform
an autogenous access. Of note, and as it is indicated in
Guideline 4, the committee made this one exception to the
rule of all-autogenous access. The committee suggested
that the access surgeon presents the patient with the choice
of either performing a forearm prosthetic access before
moving to the upper arm to perform an autogenous access
or placing the upper arm autogenous access primarily before placement of forearm prosthetic. Sources of arterial
inflow for forearm prosthetic AV access also include the
radial and brachial artery.
Similar to an autogenous access, the prosthetic access
should originate from an arterial inflow as distally in the arm
as possible where a normal palpable pulse is identified to
preserve more proximal arteries for future accesses. Therefore, when the radial artery pulse is palpable and is of a good
quality, a prosthetic radial–antecubital forearm straight access
is performed. If the radial artery pulse is nonpalpable and the
brachial artery pulse is, a prosthetic brachial–antecubital
forearm loop access is performed. Care should be paid not
to cross the elbow for venous outflow to protect upper arm
veins for future autogenous access. Patients should be told
that this forearm prosthetic access is a “bridge” to an
autogenous access. The nephrologist should be informed
to minimize the number of attempts to salvage the access
with endovascular means to avoid ruining the venous outflow, preserving it to be used as a future autogenous access.
Upper arm. When the use of the forearm has been
exhausted, efforts at access are directed to the upper arm.
Similar to the forearm, use of the upper arm cephalic vein is
preferred to the basilic vein secondary to its lateral location
and only occasional need for extensive dissection, long
incisions, and transposition. For upper arm access, either

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

the brachial artery or proximal radial is the source of arterial
inflow. Therefore, in patients with an adequate cephalic
vein and a palpable brachial artery pulse, an autogenous
brachial– cephalic upper arm direct access is performed;
alternatively, the proximal radial artery may provide a reasonable alternative with less risk of steal. If the cephalic vein
is felt to be too deep or is located far from the brachial
artery, an autogenous brachial– cephalic upper arm transposition is performed.
When the cephalic vein is considered inadequate for an
autogenous AV access, the basilic vein in the upper arm is
the preferred alternative. Secondary to its medial and deep
location, transposition or superficialization is required for
all access using the basilic vein. In patients with an adequate
basilic vein and a palpable brachial artery pulse, an autogenous brachial– basilic upper arm transposition is performed.
Alternatively, the proximal radial artery may be used as
inflow, with less risk of steal.
If the cephalic or basilic veins have been used or are not
available, an upper extremity prosthetic AV access is performed. For upper arm access, the source of arterial inflow
is the brachial or proximal radial artery. If the brachial artery
is used, it must be palpable. Alternatively, or after an upper
arm prosthetic access is used, an autogenous brachial–
brachial (vein) upper arm transposition or a great saphenous vein upper arm translocation may be performed. Of
note, although using the great saphenous vein is described
here as an autogenous alternative, it should be reserved as a
last-resort option because its long-term patency has not
been confirmed. Indeed, the femoral vein has been used as
an autogenous alternative with functional patency of 94%
reported at 2 years.70
Lower extremity. When use of both upper extremities
has been exhausted, lower extremity access becomes an
alternative access site. This access is less desirable secondary
to the high occurrence of lower extremity occlusive disease
in this group of patients, the higher likelihood of steal, and
the increased incidence of infections associated with groin
accesses. The great saphenous vein is the preferred conduit;
secondary to its medial and deep location, transpositions
are always required. The femoral artery (preferably the
superficial femoral artery or the profunda femoris artery) is
used for inflow and must be palpable. Therefore, for initial
lower extremity access in patients with adequate great
saphenous vein and a palpable femoral pulse, an autogenous femoral– great saphenous lower extremity transposition is performed, either in a loop or straight configuration.
Alternatively, in patients with a palpable posterior or anterior tibial artery pulse, either tibial artery may be used as
inflow to create an autogenous tibial– great saphenous
lower extremity direct access.
In patients without an adequate great saphenous vein,
the femoral vein (previously named superficial femoral
vein) is an appropriate alternative source of autogenous
conduit. Similar to the great saphenous vein, the femoral
vein is located too medial and deep for usable dialysis
access, and transpositions are always required. Obstructive
complications are minimized when the vein harvest is lim-

Sidawy et al 9S

ited to the anatomic segment proximal to the popliteal vein.
The femoral artery remains the source of inflow and must
be palpable. Therefore, in patients with an adequate femoral vein and a palpable femoral pulse, an autogenous femoral artery–femoral vein lower extremity transposition is
performed, either in straight or loop configuration.
If no lower extremity vein, including the great saphenous
or femoral, is available, a lower extremity prosthetic access is
performed. The common femoral artery can provide the
source of inflow and must be palpable. Therefore, in a patient
with no adequate lower extremity vein and a palpable
common femoral artery pulse, a prosthetic femoral–femoral
(vein) lower extremity looped access is performed. It is
especially important to limit the size of the anastomosis (4
to 6 mm) to the femoral artery to minimize the risk of
significant steal/ischemia and potential limb threat. This is
easily accomplished by tapering the large vein to the desired
diameter with a running suture.
Body wall. After both upper and lower extremities use
has been exhausted, body wall access can be used as an
alternative access site.71 Body wall access usually requires
use of a prosthetic graft, and its use is left as a last alternative. Sources of venous outflow include the axillary, internal
jugular, and common femoral veins. The main source of
arterial inflow is the axillary artery. Appropriate options
include a prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest access, a
prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest loop access, a prosthetic axillary–internal jugular chest loop access, and a
prosthetic axillary– common femoral (vein) body wall access. When a patient is being evaluating for placement of
AV dialysis access, this access sequencing strategy will help
the surgeon optimize the construction of autogenous access and lengthening the time the patient can be dialyzed
safely and comfortably.
3. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: First choice
is forearm autogenous arteriovenous access
We recommend the placement of forearm autogenous arteriovenous access as the first choice for primary
access for hemodialysis (GRADE 1 recommendation,
very low-quality evidence).
A. When arterial and venous anatomy is suitable,
placement of autogenous radial– cephalic direct
wrist access (Brescia-Cimino-Appel) or autogenous
posterior radial branch– cephalic direct wrist access
(snuffbox) is recommended.
B. In the case where arterial or venous anatomy does
not allow placement of a direct access, forearm
vein transposition or translocation are recommended. These procedures should use the maximal length of adequate vein and use arterial
inflow from the forearm tailored to accommodate
this length of vein.
3.1. Evidence
Systematic review of the literature that included 83
studies revealed that, compared with prosthetic access, the

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

10S Sidawy et al

Table I. Summary of evidence. Question: Should autogenous access or prosthetics access be used for patients with
chronic hemodialysis?
Quality assessment
Studies, No.

Design

Limitations

Inconsistency

Indirectness

Imprecision

Seriousb

No serious
inconsistency

No serious
indirectness

No serious
imprecision

Reporting biasc

Access infection (follow-up 6-60 months)
43
Observational studya
Seriousb

Seriousd

No serious
indirectness

No serious
imprecision

Reporting bias,c strong
associatione

Postoperative complications (follow-up 6-60 months)
31
Observational studya
Seriousb

Seriousd

No serious
indirectness

Serious

Reporting biasc

No serious
indirectness

Serious

Reporting biasc

No serious
indirectness

No serious
imprecision

Reporting biasc

Death (follow-up 6-60 months)
27
Observational studya

Length of hospitalization related to access (follow-up 6-60 months)
3
Observational studya
Seriousb,f
No serious
inconsistency
Access failure without interventions at 12 months
a
b
42
Observational study
Serious
Seriousd

Other considerations

Access failure without interventions at 36 months
24
Observational studya
Seriousb

Seriousd

No serious
indirectness

No serious
imprecision

Reporting biasc

Access failure with interventions at 12 months
25
Observational studya
Seriousb

Seriousd

No serious
indirectness

No serious
imprecision

Reporting biasc

Access failure with interventions at 36 months
20
Observational studya
Seriousb

Seriousd

No serious
indirectness

No serious
imprecision

Reporting biasc

CI, Confidence interval; N/A, Not applicable; RR, relative risk.
a
Only three of 83 studies were randomized.
b
In many studies, the two cohorts were not similar at baseline, blinded outcome assessment was not used, and loss to follow-up and funding source were not
reported.
c
Not all of the included studies reported this outcome; thus, outcome may have been collected and not reported.
d
The proportion of heterogeneity that is not attributed to chance is ⬎50%.
e
RR ⬍0.50.
f
The imbalance in the number of the two groups suggests that surgeons in these studies performed many more autogenous access placements than they did of
prosthetic ones, implying possible lack of experience in prosthetic access placement and biased selection of patients.

autogenous access is associated with a lower incidence of
death and access infection and with a higher primary and
secondary patency at 12 and 36 months.14 Subgroup analysis of 13 studies showed a significant access location–
complication interaction, suggesting that the benefit of
autogenous access compared with prosthetic access in
terms of lowering the incidence of the three complications
of steal, aneurysm, and hematoma is significantly more in
the case of lower arm autogenous access compared with
upper arm autogenous access, with RRs of 0.20 (95%
confidence interval [CI], 0.06-0.68) for the lower arm
autogenous subgroup and 1.29 (95% CI, 0.43-3.91) for
the upper arm autogenous subgroup (P ⫽ .03 ). An overall
summary of the evidence derived from this systematic review is presented in Table I. Autogenous hemodialysis
access options can be maximized by using venous transposition procedures (eg, the radial– basilic forearm transposition or the brachial– basilic upper arm transposition) when
direct arteriovenous anastomosis autogenous access options are not available.4,57,72,73

3.2. Values and preferences
The recommendation for autogenous access places
high value on optimizing patient outcomes by minimizing
the risks of death and infection and maximizing durability.
Prioritization of forearm access places high value on the
preservation of proximal veins or future access placement.
This recommendation places a lower value on competing
considerations such as higher reimbursement for construction of prosthetic, availability of ready to use off-the-shelf
prosthetic grafts, and a shorter period of time for the access
to be ready for hemodialysis.
3.3. Technical remarks
Despite the lack of evidence, some helpful techniques
may encourage the maturation of the autogenous access.
Gentle flushing of the distal end of the vein with heparinized saline allows for evaluation of the caliber and extent of
the vein and identification of side branches for ligation
through stab incisions after performing the anastomosis.
This encourages flow in the main venous segment, allowing

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

Sidawy et al 11S

Table I. Continued.
Summary of findings
Patients, No.

Effect

Autogenous access

Prosthetic access

RR (95% CI)

Absolute (95% CI)

Quality

Importance

2729/16823

7001/31698

0.76 (0.67 to 0.86)

38 fewer per 1000
(21 to 51)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Critical

527/9337

656/4416

0.18 (0.11 to 0.31)

86 fewer per 1000
(66 to 97)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Important

338/7122

162/3071

0.73 (0.48 to 1.16)

15 fewer per 1000
(⫺13 to 34)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Important

2373

74

NA

3.81 days shorter
(–7.77 to 0.15)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Important

1849/7628

2509/5538

0.72 (0.65 to 0.80)

131 fewer per 1000
(95 to 167)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Important

1410/3798

1334/2326

0.67 (0.58 to 0.78)

174 fewer per 1000
(93 to 242)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Important

892/3769

778/2735

0.83 (0.70 to 0.99)

57 fewer per 1000
(6 to 102)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Important

1055/2873

622/967

0.67 (0.61 to 0.74)

210 fewer per 1000
(150 to 264)

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Important

for faster maturation. Ligation or endovascular coiling of
side branches can also be delayed to a later date and
performed only if the autogenous access does not mature in
a timely basis.
In autogenous accesses originating from arteries
proximal to the radial, the arteriotomy should be limited
to a maximum length of 4 to 6 mm, using the smaller
anastomoses for those individuals at highest risk of developing steal-induced ischemia, such as those with diabetes mellitus and peripheral arterial occlusive disease.
Also, the anastomosis is performed with a continuous
suture to prevent future increase of the anastomotic
surface area. These two maneuvers limit future increases
in flow through the autogenous access and decrease the
incidence of arterial steal. Although the role of exercise
to encourage early maturation of the autogenous access
is not supported by strong evidence, some access surgeons continue to ask patients to perform hand exercises
starting 24 to 48 hours postoperatively to increase blood
flow through the vein to encourage early maturation of
the access.

4. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Choice of
arteriovenous access when a patient is not a
suitable candidate for forearm autogenous access
For patients who have exhausted all forearm veins
on both sides and, according to vein availability and
surgical expertise, are suitable candidates for either
forearm prosthetic access or upper arm access of any
type, we suggest that the surgeon offer both alternatives to patients (GRADE 2, very low-quality evidence).
4.1. Evidence
The systematic review by Murad et al14 identified only
2 studies that compared the autogenous upper arm access
with the prosthetic lower arm access (prosthetic looped
forearm access). One study showed that an autogenous brachial– basilic fistula in the upper arm had significantly better
primary and assisted-primary patency at 12 months compared
with the polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) group,74 and the
second study showed both accesses had similar patency at 12

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

12S Sidawy et al

Table II. Summary of evidence. Question: Should access surveillance vs watchful waiting be used for patients with
chronic hemodialysis?e
Quality assessment

Studies, No.

Design

Limitations

Access thrombosis (follow-up mean 18 months)
7
Randomized triala
Seriousb
Access abandonment (follow-up mean 18 months)
6
Randomized triala
Seriousb

Inconsistency

Indirectness

Imprecision

Other considerations

No serious
inconsistency

Seriousc

Seriousd

None

Seriouse

No serious
indirectness

Seriousd

None

CI, Confidence interval; RR, relative risk.
a
One study was not randomized.
b
Most trials lack description of allocation concealment and blinding of patients, clinicians, and outcome assessors. The first threatens prognostic balance at
baseline; the latter threatens maintenance of prognosis balance after randomization.
c
Access thrombosis is a surrogate outcome for access failure, which is a patient-important outcome associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
d
Confidence intervals are wide.
e
The proportion of heterogeneity that is not attributable to chance is ⬎50%.

and 24 months, although the autogenous access group had
fewer complications.75 Of note, subgroup analysis by Murad et al did not demonstrate superiority of upper arm
autogenous access compared with prosthetic accesses in
terms of complications.
4.2. Values and preference
In a patient whose bilateral forearm veins have been
exhausted, the decision whether to place an upper arm
autogenous AV access before placement of forearm prosthetic access is a difficult one. In the effort to maximize
placement of autogenous accesses, surgeons are sometimes
performing upper arm autogenous accesses without considering whether a forearm prosthetic access might be more
appropriate. In some instances, placement of forearm prosthetic access before moving to an autogenous upper arm
access may prove advantageous. Although the upper arm
autogenous access may fare better compared with a forearm
prosthetic access, using these two accesses sequentially may
lead to additive benefit: This practice may help to preserve
upper arm veins for future placement of autogenous access,
may help to increase the caliber of these veins and maximize
the success of future upper arm autogenous access, and may
provide patients with an additional 1 to 3 years of functional hemodialysis access before resorting to catheter use
or other, less studied and less desirable configurations in the
lower extremity or body wall.
4.3. Technical remarks
When forearm autogenous sites are depleted, a forearm
prosthetic access can be considered before moving to the
upper arm for placement of an autogenous access as long as
the forearm prosthetic access does not cross the elbow
when the venous anastomosis is performed. Such access
helps to develop the upper arm veins due to the increased
flow from the forearm prosthetic access, and if the venous
anastomosis is kept below the elbow, upper arm veins are

preserved for future use. In addition in the case of the
prosthetic access failing or failure, care should be directed
and the staff involved in the patient’s care should be informed not to involve the veins above the elbow in procedures designed to maintain or re-establish patency of the
prosthetic access.
There are additional techniques that are common to all
prosthetic access placements. The tunnel should be superficial enough for easy access for the dialysis staff. A 6-mm
PTFE prosthetic graft without rings is used for the conduit.
For patients at risk for ischemia, such as when the brachial
or lower extremity arteries are used for inflow, a tapered or
stepped graft should be considered for use with the smaller
end of the graft placed at the arterial end.
5. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: The role of
monitoring and surveillance in arteriovenous
access management
A. We recommend regular clinical monitoring (inspection, palpation, auscultation, and monitoring for
prolonged bleeding after needle withdrawal) to detect access dysfunction (GRADE 1, very low-quality
evidence).
B. We suggest access flow monitoring or static dialysis
venous pressures for routine surveillance (GRADE
2, very low-quality evidence).
C. We suggest performing a Duplex ultrasound (DU)
study or contrast imaging study in accesses that
display clinical signs of dysfunction or abnormal
routine surveillance (GRADE 2, very low-quality
evidence).
5.1. Evidence
A systematic review of 12 studies, 10 of which were
randomized, demonstrated that very low-quality evidence
yielding imprecise results suggested a potentially beneficial

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

Sidawy et al 13S

Table II. Continued.
Summary of findings
Patients, No.

Effect

Access surveillance

Watchful waiting

RR (95% CI)

Absolute

Quality

Importance

90/406

92/387

0.82 (0.58 to 1.16)

43 fewer per 1000

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Critical

94/614

88/347

0.80 (0.51 to 1.25)

51 fewer per 1000

QŒŒŒ (very low)

Critical

impact of AV access surveillance, followed by interventions
to restore patency.15 In this review, the surveillance strategy of nine studies (1363 patients) was compared with
clinical monitoring, with a vascular intervention to maintain or restore patency provided to both groups if needed.
Surveillance, followed by intervention, led to a nonsignificant reduction of the risk of access thrombosis (RR, 0.82;
95% CI, 0.58-1.16; I2 ⫽ 37%) and access abandonment
(RR, 0.80; 95% CI, 0.51-1.25; I2 ⫽ 60%). Three studies
(207 patients) compared the effect of vascular interventions
vs observation in patients with an abnormal surveillance
result. Vascular interventions after an abnormal AV access
surveillance result led to a significant reduction of the risk of
access thrombosis (RR, 0.53; 95% CI, 0.36-0.76) and a
nonsignificant reduction of the risk of access abandonment
(RR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.43-1.37). Table II summarizes the
quality of evidence derived from this systematic review.
It is important to recognize that the value of surveillance strongly depends on the adequacy of clinical monitoring (physical examination and assessment of clinical
clues of access dysfunctions). Clinical monitoring by skilled
personnel was shown to have adequate diagnostic accuracy;
clinical monitoring has been reported to have positive
predictive value of 70% to 90% in prosthetic accesses and a
specificity of 90% and a sensitivity of 38% 93% in autogenous accesses.76-79 Therefore, in centers with skilled personnel, surveillance may not be as beneficial and produce
marginal benefit vs clinical monitoring, as outlined above.
However, this is not the practice in the real world, wherein
physical examinations are seldom conducted and the first
indication of an underlying stenosis is often access thrombosis. In this situation, surveillance may be more justified.
Furthermore, although access survival was no different
in members of the group who underwent surveillance, it is
possible that their lower incidence of thrombosis may translate into a reduction in access-related costs and hospitalizations, as demonstrated in a reanalysis of a small study by
Dossabhoy et al80 and by a quality improvement project

conducted by Wijnen et al.81 In the latter study, flow
surveillance produced a 32.5% reduction in the overall cost
of access care. Savings occurred chiefly in the prosthetic
access group and resulted from reduction in the number of
invasive procedures, central catheters, and hospitalizations.
Therefore, and despite the imprecision of evidence, surveillance of accesses may be justified.
5.2. Values and preferences
These recommendations place higher value on preventing access thrombosis and the associated cost, hospitalization, morbidity, and burdens and lower values on inconvenience and cost of surveillance and monitoring. In
addition, considering the low costs and harms associated
with clinical monitoring, access flow, and static dialysis
venous pressure measurements, we suggested these methods for routine surveillance to detect access dysfunction,
reserving DU scans for patients with accesses that show
symptoms and signs suggestive of impending access failure.
In these patients, the benefits of imaging studies are likely
to outweigh the potential burden and cost.82,83
5.3. Technical remarks
Assessing functionality of AV access. Various methods can be used to assess the functionality of AV accesses.
They range from clinical physical evaluation to invasive
contrast procedures. This will be discussed in the section
below, which addresses available methods used to detect or
confirm access dysfunction.
Access assessment and clinical monitoring. A. Assessment of the new access. Prosthetic AV accesses, such as PTFE
grafts, can be cannulated as early as 2 weeks after their
construction, provided that they have a bruit, the postoperative edema has resolved, and there is no evidence of
infection. However, the clinical assessment of new autogenous access requires considerable experience in interpreting
visual, auditory, and tactile clues. A normal autogenous
access has a soft pulse that is easily compressible and a

14S Sidawy et al

continuous low-pitched bruit. A thrill should be palpable
near the anastomosis and extend along the vein outflow for
a varying distance. In addition, a normal autogenous access
collapses when the extremity is elevated. Clinical clues of a
stenosis of an autogenous AV access include the presence of
a palpable pulse at the arterial end with possible faint thrill
or complete access collapse proximally, a discontinuous
bruit, or failure to collapse with arm elevation. The physical
examination can be used to estimate access diameter, its
depth from the skin, the presence of collateral veins and the
presence of accessory veins.
If upon clinical evaluation at 4 to 6 weeks the autogenous access is not clearly maturing adequately, further
investigation is warranted to identify potentially remediable
anatomic lesions. These may include a venous or arterial
stenosis, competing veins, large patent branches, or excessive depth from the skin.27 The assessment may be performed either by DU scanning or by an imaging study.
Several studies have demonstrated that at least 80% of
immature autogenous accesses can be salvaged after correcting one or more underlying lesions.84,85 Moreover,
immature autogenous accesses with correctable anatomic
lesions that are repaired percutaneously or surgically are
much more likely to achieve suitability for dialysis compared with those that do not undergo a corrective
procedure.86
A mature autogenous access requires three components: (1) an adequate diameter to permit safe cannulation
with dialysis needles without infiltration, (2) an adequate
access flow rate to permit achieving an access blood flow of
ⱖ500 mL/min,87,88 and (3) it must be sufficiently superficial to permit recognition of landmarks and accurate, safe
cannulation.27 The access blood flow increases dramatically
within 24 hours of autogenous access placement and
reaches most of its maximum flow within 3 to 6 weeks.89,90
Similarly, most of the increase in access diameter is achieved
within 4 to 8 weeks of autogenous access placement.87
When the clinical examination is equivocal, a postoperative DU study can be helpful. Specifically, measurement of
the vein diameter and access blood flow is useful in predicting access functionality. When the vein diameter is ⱖ4 mm
and the access blood flow is ⱖ500 mL/min, there is a 95%
likelihood that the autogenous access will be usable for
dialysis. If the vein diameter is ⬍4 mm and the access blood
flow is ⬍500 mL/min, only 33% of autogenous accesses are
likely to be suitable for dialysis. If only one of the two
criteria is met, the likelihood of access success is intermediate (60% to 70%). Interestingly, the time from placement to
cannulation varies geographically: Autogenous accesses are
routinely cannulated ⱕ1 month of placement in Europe
and Japan, whereas the average time in the United States is
about 3 months.91
B. Monitoring and surveillance of an established access. The
KDOQI defines “monitoring” as including physical examination indicators such as observation, palpation, and auscultation of the access, whereas “surveillance” refers to
various tests to assess access function.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

Physical examination of the graft by trained nephrologists or dialysis staff is very effective in identifying accesses
with clinically significant underlying stenosis. Abnormalities on physical examination of the access (absent thrill,
abnormal auscultation, persistent edema of the access extremity, venous collaterals on the ipsilateral chest wall) have
a high positive predictive value for stenosis estimated at 80%
in prosthetic accesses.92-94
A number of surveillance tests have been found
useful in detecting access dysfunction. The four most
useful surveillance methods, which are described in the
KDOQI Guidelines, are (1) serial access flow measurement, (2) serial measurement of static dialysis venous
pressure, (3) prepump arterial pressure, and (4) DU
scanning. Unlike clinical evaluation, most surveillance
methods require the use of specialized equipment and
trained technicians. Each of these methods has a high
positive predictive value for identifying access dysfunction
when applied to the correct setting and to the indicated
type of access (autogenous or prosthetic access, catheter). A
description of how to perform these tests can be found in
the NKF-KDOQI Clinical Practice Guidelines.9 The clinical value of each test is summarized below:
1. Access blood flow measurements. Access blood flow is
the best determinant of access function. As a prosthetic
access develops progressive stenosis, access blood flow falls
progressively. A number of studies have shown that a
prosthetic access blood flow rate of ⬍600 mL/min, or one
that has decreased by ⬎25% from the previous baseline, has
a high predictive value for significant stenosis (87% to
100%).95,96 This test is most useful for autogenous AV
access, where venous pressure surveillance is less reliable.
The most common methods of measuring access flow can
be performed in 10 to 15 minutes while the patient is on
dialysis, after reversing the arterial and venous lines. The
measurement uses ultrasound dilution (Fick principle) by
measuring the rate of change in ultrasound transmission in
the venous line after infusion of a saline bolus through the
arterial line. The KDOQI Guidelines recommend monthly
measurement of access flow. It requires specialized equipment and a trained technician.
2. Static venous dialysis pressure. The greatest value of
static venous dialysis pressure (VDP) is in prosthetic accesses, but is of little or no value as a surveillance tool for
autogenous accesses because of the high incidence of lowflow etiologies proximal to the venous needle in autogenous accesses where VDP is measured.
Measurement of dynamic VDP (at a low dialysis blood
flow of 200 ml/min) is a relative poor marker of autogenous or prosthetic access stenosis. It is affected by multiple
factors, including the dialysis blood flow, needle diameter,
type of dialysis machine, and the patient’s blood pressure.
Better standardization can be achieved by measuring static
VDP (at zero dialysis pump blood flow). VDP needs to be
normalized for the systemic blood pressure. The ratio of
systolic VDP to systemic systolic blood pressure can be
suggestive of stenosis when the ratio of systolic VDP to
systemic systolic blood pressure is ⬎ 0.4.97 Use of mean

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

pressure ratio (more commonly obtained by the pressure
transducers on conventional dialysis systems) requires that
the ratio is ⬎0.5. The use of any given static venous
pressure ratio is not a reliable indicator of stenosis, especially in autogenous access; however, the best use of static
VDP measurement is as a trending tool, where trends of
increasing VDP may be indicative of stenosis.98 It is critical
to have a well-trained technician who performs the measurements in a standardized fashion and who calibrates the
transducers.
3. Prepump arterial dialysis pressure. Most dialysis machines currently in use have a pressure transducer connected to the blood line on the arterial side of the blood
pump. This prepump pressure is displayed on the information screen and indicates the ease (or difficulty) with which
blood is drawn from the access by the blood pump at any
given pump setting. This pressure is influenced by anything
that causes restriction of flow to the pump: the needle
gauge and length, the diameter and length of the blood
line, needle position in the access, and access blood flow.
After any needle or tubing problem has been checked as the
possible cause of unexpected increasingly negative arterial
dialysis pressure and corrected, inadequate access flow,
which is the most common cause of persistently elevated
prepump arterial pressure, will be the likely cause.
New autogenous accesses, which have a high incidence
of failure to mature, almost always have an access flow
problem that is on the arterial side of the venous needle and
therefore will be identified by an excessively negative arterial dialysis pressure (ADP). In addition, most of the flowrestricting lesions in dysfunctional radial– cephalic as well as
some other autogenous accesses, are likewise present on the
arterial side of the venous needle and are often identified by
increasingly negative ADPs. Therefore, routinely checking
the ADP at every dialysis session is critically important in
evaluating function in autogenous accesses, especially new
ones.
4. Duplex ultrasound imaging. DU imaging can assess
the access for both anatomic as well as flow abnormalities
that may represent significant stenosis. This test requires
measuring the peak systolic velocity (PSV) at the graft
venous anastomosis and at any other area of visual stenosis.99 A ratio of PSV ⱖ2.0 at the stenotic site compared
with the PSV immediately upstream is used to diagnose
stenosis, with a positive predictive value of 80% for significant graft stenosis.87 It is possible to measure the volume
flow through the graft, but that measurement is less accurate than the flow surveillance technique previously described. In general, DU imaging requires expensive equipment, a trained technician, and is not typically performed in
the dialysis unit. The increasing availability of portable
laptop based systems may alter this in the future. However,
DU imaging is currently not an easily accessible or a costeffective method for routine access surveillance.
Finally, abnormalities related to the dialysis session
have a 69% positive predictive value for significant stenosis.
Within this last category, the predictive value of prolonged
bleeding from the needle sites is 76%, difficulty with can-

Sidawy et al 15S

nulation is 58%, and aspiration of clots is 30%. In addition,
an unexplained decrease (⬎0.2 U) in delivered dialysis dose
(Kt/V) on a fixed dialysis prescription has a 69% positive
predictive value for significant stenosis.
Monitoring and surveillance by access type. 1. Autogenous access. The best, most feasible tools for identifying
dysfunction in autogenous access include (1) physical examination (monitoring), (2) routine measurement of prepump ADP at every dialysis session, and (3) serial access
blood flow measurements. In addition, although not recommended for routine surveillance, a recirculation study
can help in select cases of autogenous access dysfunction to
confirm inadequate access flow because recirculation results
when access flow falls below dialysis blood pump demand.
This study has little value with a prosthetic access because
prosthetic accesses will usually thrombose at low flows that
do not support adequate dialysis, whereas autogenous accesses will remain patent at very low flows, thereby permitting inadequate dialysis to proceed without noticeable
etiology.
2. Prosthetic access. Prosthetic access function is best
and most feasibly followed up by (1) a physical examination
(monitoring), (2) serial access blood flow measurements,
and (3) serial static VDP measurements.
Diagnostic tests: DU scanning and imaging
studies. Although DU can be used as a diagnostic tool for
access stenosis, it has some limitations, especially for identifying lesions behind bone, as in subclavian vein stenosis. A
major advantage is that it is noninvasive. If an etiology for
access dysfunction is not identified by DU scanning, an
imaging study should be performed. A contrast imaging
study or other imaging studies such as MRA of the access is the
gold standard for documenting stenosis. Because it is expensive and invasive, it should be reserved for those patients in
whom abnormal clinical monitoring or access surveillance
has predicted a high likelihood of hemodynamically
(⬎50%) significant stenosis. This contrast study should
include the arterial inflow, the actual access, its outflow
vein, and central vein. If a significant stenosis is detected, a
balloon angioplasty can be performed at the same sitting.
In the event that no obstructing lesion is identified, a
physiologic etiology causing low access flow is likely and
should be investigated by an access flow study.
Preemptive angioplasty associated with monitoring
and surveillance. As mentioned previously, a number of
observational studies (using historical controls) have shown
a substantial reduction in the rate of graft thrombosis after
implementing a program of stenosis monitoring or surveillance with preemptive angioplasty. More recently, six randomized clinical trials have evaluated the efficacy of this
approach in reducing graft thrombosis or prolonging graft
longevity. These studies have used a variety of surveillance
methods, including static dialysis venous pressures, flow
monitoring, and DU imaging. In each of these studies, the
intervention group had a substantially higher rate of preemptive angioplasty. Despite that, access surveillance failed
to improve thrombosis-free graft survival or overall (cumulative) graft survival in five of the six studies.76,95,100-102

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

16S Sidawy et al

Only one of the six studies (using DU scanning) demonstrated a reduction in graft thrombosis and an improvement in access longevity.103
The randomized studies of access surveillance have
been fairly small in size (64 to 189 patients), so they may
not have been sufficiently powered to demonstrate a small
benefit of access surveillance. Taken together, however,
they suggest that the benefit of preemptive angioplasty is
modest at best. Thus, the available surveillance methods are
quite useful in detecting significant stenosis and permitting
preemptive angioplasty before the graft thrombosis. The benefit is quite short-lived, however, and the injury from the
angioplasty appears to accelerate the process of restenosis.
This topic continues to generate significant debate.104,105
6. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Conversion
of a prosthetic AV access to a secondary
autogenous AV access.
We suggest that a plan and protocol for eventual
conversion of forearm prosthetic access to a secondary
autogenous AV access should be put in place at the
presence of any sign of failing forearm prosthetic AV
access, or after the first failure (GRADE 2, very lowquality evidence).
We suggest two strategies for transitioning suitable
prosthetic AV access to secondary autogenous access
before abandoning a functional prosthetic access:
A. Conversion of the prosthetic access mature outflow
vein to an autogenous access.
B. Identifying a new, remote site for autogenous access construction in a patient where the prosthetic
access outflow vein is not deemed suitable.
6.1. Evidence
The committee found no high-quality evidence to support a strategy of converting prosthetic accesses with impending failure to secondary autogenous accesses, and
these recommendations are based on very low-quality evidence that consists of unsystematic observations and the
consensus of experts.
6.2. Values and preferences
In recommending a proactive approach that involves
conversion of a failing or failed prosthetic access to a
secondary autogenous access before the prosthetic access
fails, the committee placed highest value on maintaining
functional permanent access and avoiding interruption of
dialysis and the need for central venous catheter placement,
known for an associated high rate of infection and possibly
mortality.
6.3. Technical remarks
In all instances, the construction of the new autogenous access should take place before abandonment of the
prosthetic one to allow for adequate time for autogenous
AV access maturity without the need for a long-term catheter. This is true whether the secondary autogenous access

is constructed by conversion of the prosthetic access mature
outflow vein to an autogenous access or by identifying a
new, remote site for autogenous access construction in a
patient where the prosthetic access outflow vein is not
deemed suitable, In preparation for the procedure, the
outflow veins should be evaluated, including the central
venous circulation, for the presence of obstruction.106 The
FFBI Work Group recommends that the evaluation for
secondary autogenous access be triggered by the initial AV
graft failure and that conversion to autogenous access be
performed no later than the second graft failure. This is to
allow adequate time for AV fistula maturation without need
for a catheter.
A. Conversion of prosthetic AV access outflow vein
to an autogenous access. This strategy is predominantly
applicable to forearm AV prosthetic access because the
outflow veins are readily accessible, well located for conversion to autogenous access for hemodialysis, and one or
more of the outflow veins are usually suitable as a conduit.
The outflow vein candidates in the arm are the cephalic,
basilic, and brachial veins. In situations where these veins
are not suitable, there may be an adequate vein in the
forearm that can be used as a retrograde-flow secondary
autogenous access, after disrupting one or more valves.
This is another reason why preoperative imaging to identify
all vessel options is so critical, especially in patients with few,
if any, access options available. In most patients with an
established forearm prosthetic access, one or more of the
outflow veins becomes a mature, adequate autogenous
access conduit.107,108 If an imaging study confirms that the
outflow vein is suitable, conversion of this outflow vein into
an upper arm access provides an ideal autogenous alternative that is durable and usually usable immediately, thus
obviating or minimizing the need for a catheter. A separate
imaging study is not usually necessary, because the fistulogram performed for the graft failure can be used to examine
the outflow and central veins.
B. Remote secondary autogenous AV access construction. This strategy involves a physical examination
and vessel mapping in a patient with a failing prosthetic
access where an imaging study has shown that a suitable
outflow vein is not available. In this situation, evaluation of
the vessels of the contralateral extremity should be performed. If suitable remote vessels are identified, a secondary
autogenous AV access construction should be undertaken as
soon as feasible to avoid the need for long-term use of a
catheter when the failing access is no longer salvageable.
7. CLINICAL RECOMMENDATION: Management
of nonfunctional or failed arteriovenous access.
We suggest open surgery, endovascular means, or a
combination of both to maintain or restore patency in
AV access (GRADE 2, very low-quality evidence).
7.1. Evidence
The choice between open and endovascular interventions to improve the functionality or to restore or maintain
patency in accesses that show signs of impending failure is

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

based on nonrandomized studies that showed both procedures to be moderately effective and safe. Owing to the lack
of such randomized comparison, the panel was unable to
recommend one over the other. Open thrombectomy is
successful in restoring thrombosed access function.109,110
Similarly, endovascular techniques using a combined percutaneous mechanical and pharmacologic thrombectomy
are successful in restoring function in most patients. Further, both open and endovascular interventions may add a
further average of 12 months of functionality with low
morbidity and mortality while preserving future sites of
access.111
7.2. Values and peferences
In recommending either method or a combination of
both to be used for failed or failing AV accesses, the
committee recognizes the weakness of the evidence that
may favor one method rather than the other. Because none
of these methods has been proven to have better short- or
long-term results, the committee based its recommendation on other factors that may determine outcomes. Such
factors include the experience of the surgeon, interventionalist, or other AV access specialist and the ability or availability of either method in a certain situation or location
where a patient presents for care.
7.3. Technical remarks
Management of nonfunctional or failed AV access
A. Access functionality. Access functionality is a very
important concept. An access can be patent but unusable
for successful hemodialysis—and thus nonfunctional—and
such an access provides no benefit to the patient. In fact, a
nonfunctional access maybe even harmful because the patient may continue to be dialyzed using percutaneous catheters, with their intended complications, while waiting for
the autogenous access to dilate and mature.
An access that has failed to mature is patent but not
functional.12 Failure to mature is more frequently an issue
with autogenous AV accesses than prosthetic grafts. As
recommended by the FFBI, every new autogenous access
should be evaluated for development at 4 weeks. If the
access is not adequately maturing by four weeks or not
functional by 12 weeks (ie, access flow ⬍500 ml/min, a
recirculation higher than 10%, or inability to cannulate), a
contrast study should be performed. Beathard et al112
demonstrated the feasibility of salvage of the early nonmaturing autogenous accesses. Of 63 patients with inadequate
autogenous access development, the access was patent in
74.7% after 1 year by using a systematic approach for
revision that included diagnostic angiography, percutaneous angioplasty, and accessory vein ligation as indicated.112
Most nonfunctional autogenous accesses should therefore
be investigated and the underlying defects corrected, with
reasonable expectation of long term functionality. The
underlying defects are usually one or more of the following:
1. Access too deep. An access can be nonfunctional because it is placed too deep in an extremity such that punc-

Sidawy et al 17S

ture is difficult, inconsistent, or traumatic to the patient and
the conduit. Several approaches can be taken to correct this
problem, depending on the location and access type. When
a prosthetic graft is placed too deep, it may be possible to
divide the graft close to an anastomosis and place it in a new
tunnel. If this is not possible, an entirely new conduit must
be placed.
Because a functioning autogenous access is very valuable, every attempt must be made to move the vein to a
more superficial location. Typically, this involves making an
incision along the entire length of the autogenous or transposed vein and retunneling the vein, often moving the
location of the arteriovenous anastomosis. Retunneling
may shorten the length of the conduit available for puncture. Before embarking on an operation of this magnitude,
the access should be studied to ensure that the conduit is
free from stenoses and that an additional procedure is likely
to render the access functional.
2. Nonligated side branches. Large, patent side branches
in an autogenous access may shunt blood away from the
axial vein, thereby preventing the main trunk from dilating
sufficiently to accept dialysis cannulae and to support adequate dialysis. However, before simple surgical ligation or
endoluminal coil occlusion, the main trunk must be studied
angiographically or with DU scanning to ensure that the
side branch has not dilated secondary to a stenosis in the
main trunk increasing resistance to axial flow. Such a lesion
must be addressed before side branch obliteration. Generally, these branches must be ⬎2 mm diameter to be considered significant and associated with a poorly maturing
axial vein.
Localization of the side branch can be achieved by
visual inspection, ultrasound scanning, or angiography.
Road mapping of the access and side branch facilitates
accurate marking of the side branch for either an endovascular or surgical approach. Coil embolization and surgical
ligation are equally acceptable approaches.
3. Insufficient arterial inflow. Insufficient arterial inflow as a cause for nonfunctionality is much less frequent
than venous anastomotic stenoses in prosthetic AV grafts,
representing only 3% to 5% of all stenoses identified in
hemodialysis accesses.100 Stenosis at the arterial anastomosis is the most common reason for inadequate arterial
inflow. Arterial anastomotic stenosis usually occurs as a
result of a technical error or neointimal hyperplasia. The
next most common location for arterial stenosis is an orificial stenosis of the subclavian artery, most commonly on
the left and caused by atherosclerosis. These can usually be
studied by retrograde puncture of the access, navigating the
diagnostic catheter retrograde into the aorta. Alternatively,
a standard transfemoral approach can be used. Stenoses
⬎50% of the diameter of the artery that are associated with
access failure should be treated with angioplasty. Stenting
in addition to angioplasty can be used for subclavian orificial stenoses. Before management of the arterial stenosis, an
evaluation of the access viability and stratification of the risk
of the patient to undergo such procedure should be
undertaken.

18S Sidawy et al

4. Poor venous outflow. With increasing pressure to
create primary autogenous accesses, there is growing concern that surgeons will use “inadequate veins” to achieve
target rates of autogenous access placement. A small or
diseased vein may result in poor venous flow that can be
associated with failed maturation, early failure, and focal
areas of stenosis or dilation, or both. Definitions of vein
adequacy will be described elsewhere in this document.
However, once the autogenous access has been placed, a
policy of aggressive re-evaluation should be performed to
maintain access functionality as described in the surveillance section. Revision of a functioning autogenous access
to a more proximal arterial and venous location is another
strategy to optimize use of vein segments that have matured, while excluding diseased segments.
Poor venous outflow can also be caused by early anastomotic stenoses, which are technical errors, usually manifest as early thrombosis, but they can also lead to nonfunctionality or failure to mature in autogenous accesses. When
diagnosed ⱕ7 days of access construction, surgical revision
should be performed. When such stenoses are diagnosed
later, balloon angioplasty can be performed initially. Care
must be taken when approaching the arterial anastomosis.
Arterial embolization can result from clot fragmentation or
dislodgement of the arterial plug, and intimal dissection
can occur from vessel damage caused by the wire or thrombectomy device.
B. Thrombosis. Thrombosis is the most common complication of AV access, accounting for a major source of
morbidity, hospitalization, and cost. A thrombosed access
is not patent and nonfunctional. Access thrombosis can
occur for a variety of reasons and can be classified into
thrombosis that occurs early (perioperative, 0-30 days) and
late (⬎30 days) in the life of an access. It is very important
to note that thrombectomy alone may not result in longterm patency of the access if the etiology of the thrombosis
is not addressed at the same sitting or shortly thereafter.
A stenosis is usually found along the access circuit;
therefore, the key to preventing a recurrent thrombosis of
an access is complete imaging of the arterial inflow, the
access itself, and venous outflow. The venous outflow study
should include the central venous circulation because most
accesses have more than one stenosis in their circuit and
stenoses often occur centrally.113 A retrospective review
by Sofocleous et al114 found 48 complications occurred
in 579 treated thrombosed prosthetic hemodialysis accesses. Their overall technical success rate was 81%, and
primary and secondary patency rate at 6 months were 36%
and 67%, respectively. They also found that most complications encountered during percutaneous thrombolysis or
surgical thrombectomy of thrombosed prosthetic access
could be treated at the same sitting, allowing the same
access to be used for hemodialysis.114 Percutaneous excimer laser-facilitated thrombus vaporization is also found to
be safe and effective for recanalization of acute and subacute thrombotic occlusions of hemodialysis shunts.115
1. Early thrombosis. Early failure occurs for many of the
same reasons described above as causing nonfunctionality.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

In a way, early thrombosis represents the more extreme
form of failure to mature, and mechanistically, the same
underlying problems need to be evaluated in addition to
performing thrombectomy of the conduit, either by endovascular or open surgical means. Insufficient arterial inflow,
poor venous outflow, and anastomotic stenosis are the
most common reasons for early access thrombosis. Additional factors may include surgical technical errors, intrinsic
coagulation state, drops in systemic blood pressure, and
poor cardiac output.
Usually, the surgeon has some idea from the initial
procedure about what might be the most likely cause of
early access failure. Depending on what is thought to be the
most likely reason for access failure, surgical re-exploration
of the access may or may not be worthwhile. For example,
a small vein that failed to dilate with a gentle intraoperative
infusion of heparinized solution or a diseased artery with
poor inflow may not be worth re-exploration. It may make
more sense to evaluate alternative sites with a view toward
placing a new access. On the other hand, a possible kink in
the vein graft or compression within the tunnel would
require prompt urgent exploration.
Strategies for revisions can range from a simple thrombectomy to creation of completely new proximal anastomoses on the donor artery or vein. Occasionally, a preexisting venous stenosis that was not recognized before
placement of the access can be diagnosed angiographically.
In this situation, thrombectomy alone would not be expected to result in long-term access patency if the stenosis is
not addressed.
2. Late thrombosis. Although both autogenous and
prosthetic accesses are prone to late thrombosis, the approach to late thrombosis differs substantially. Prosthetic
accesses have a much higher incidence of thrombosis and
the access-specific stenotic lesion is more predictably found
in a specific location, at the prosthetic venous anastomosis.
In contrast, in autogenous access the stenosis can be located anywhere along the access vein used for needle puncture, and multiple stenoses are often present, thus highlighting the importance of complete access evaluation.
Prosthetic and autogenous accesses can both be plagued by
stenoses along the venous outflow tract, including central
veins on the same side.
Although venous stenoses are far more common, the
arterial side can also develop stenoses that can result in
access thrombosis. Such lesions can be atherosclerotic in
nature and can arise anywhere in the inflow arterial circuit.
In addition, a hyperplastic stenosis can occur at the arterial
anastomosis. Therefore, evaluation of the arterial inflow
from the central arteries to the artery providing inflow to
the access is indicated if a venous etiology cannot be found
or the quality of the arterial inflow is in question.
Intimal hyperplasia. In ⬎90% of cases, prosthetic accesses failure is due to stenosis of the venous anastomosis,
draining vein, or central vein.115-119 Histologic analysis of
the venous anastomotic lesion demonstrates that it is identical to restenotic lesions that occur in the coronary arteries
after coronary angioplasty or artery-to-artery bypass. The

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

pathophysiology of prosthetic access failure is largely that of
neointimal hyperplasia at the venous anastomosis.
It is important to note that once access occlusion
occurs, prolonged patency is unusual. Thrombectomy, access revision, or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty
usually result in a limited period of patency before failure
recurs. The inability to prolong access patency after occlusion reflects several challenges, including the difficulty of
correcting the primary lesion responsible for access failure,
alteration in graft thrombogenicity, persistence of secondary lesions, or a combination of these factors. Moreover,
the injury caused by angioplasty of the stenotic lesion can
itself promote accelerated neointimal hyperplasia. Because
the venous anastomotic lesion of an AV graft is a proliferative vascular lesion, it is difficult to dilate and has a very
high recurrence rate, regardless of the corrective intervention performed.
The KDOQI Guidelines recommend9,120 that stenoses
in prosthetic or autogenous accesses should be treated
prophylactically with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or surgical revision if the stenosis is ⬎50% of the
lumen diameter and is associated with clinical/physiologic
abnormalities.
Management of thrombosed access. The mainstay of the
management of thrombosed access is clot management,
identification of stenotic lesions causing thrombosis, and
management of significant stenotic lesions. Clot management alone is usually not sufficient for long-term patency
unless the inciting factor is transient, such as access
compression or an episode of hypotension. Management
of thrombosed access can be by surgical or endovascular
techniques. In either method, the clot or thrombus
needs to be removed: surgically using a Fogarty balloon
catheter or by endovascular means using thrombolysis,
mechanical thrombectomy devices, or a combination
thereof. Many of these devices are currently being used;
a description of such devices can be found elsewhere in
the literature.
1. Open surgical management: After surgical catheter
thrombectomy, stenotic lesions either at the venous
outflow anastomosis of a prosthetic graft or in the main
body of the autogenous access have been traditionally
managed by open surgical techniques. If the lesion is
short, a patch angioplasty can be performed using either
autogenous venous or prosthetic material. When the
lesion is long or multiple sequential lesions are found, a
vein segment or a piece of prosthetic graft is used to
bypass the diseased segment. This bypass can be performed either to replace the diseased segment or to
bypass it to a proximal healthy vein. This should be
planned in a way to keep, if possible, an incorporated
segment of a prosthetic access or a mature segment of an
autogenous access free to be continuously used for
dialysis, obviating the need for catheter placement while
the new replacement segment incorporates or matures.
This is well demonstrated when a prosthetic access
thrombosis due to a hyperplastic lesion at the graft–vein

Sidawy et al 19S

interface is being surgically repaired. A longitudinal
incision is made in the prosthetic graft and extended to
the vein through the lesion. A Fogarty catheter is used
to perform thrombectomy from the longitudinal incision. When the thrombectomy is complete, as evidenced by excellent arterial inflow, the longitudinal
incision is closed using a patch that widens the lumen at
the venous anastomotic site. The incorporated main
body of the access can then be used for dialysis immediately after the conclusion of the procedure without the
need for percutaneous catheter placement.
2. Endovascular techniques: clot can be managed by a
variety of endovascular techniques or thrombolysis and
the stenotic lesions can also be managed using balloon
angioplasty and stenting techniques.
3. Combination of both techniques:
a. Open balloon catheter thrombectomy through a
small transverse incision remote from both the arterial
and venous anastomosis of a prosthetic access.
b. Angiographic imaging of the entire graft including
arterial anastomosis and entire venous outflow.
c. Open revision or balloon angioplasty of graft, anastomotic or venous outflow tract stenoses.
ACCESS CONFIGURATIONS
Autogenous accesses
Forearm autogenous accesses. Autogenous posterior radial branch– cephalic direct wrist access (snuffbox). This autogenous access is performed between the end of the cephalic vein and the posterior branch of the radial artery
located in the anatomic snuffbox. The cephalic vein and
radial artery are identified through a single longitudinal
incision overlying the palpable posterior branch of the
radial artery pulse. The artery is found in the base of the
snuffbox between the tendons of the extensor pollicis longus and brevis.
Autogenous radial– cephalic direct wrist access (BresciaCimino-Appel).
This autogenous access is performed between the end of
the cephalic vein and the radial artery in the wrist. If the
arterial pulse and the vein are close to each other, the
procedure is performed through one longitudinal or curvilinear incision. If these vessels are far from each other, the
artery and the vein are dissected through two separate
longitudinal incisions and the vein is passed through a
tunnel to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous radial– cephalic forearm transposition. This
autogenous access is performed between the end of the
cephalic vein and the radial artery in the forearm. The
cephalic vein is identified at the wrist and mobilized to the
antecubital fossa. The radial artery may be identified within
the distal portion of this incision or, if located far away, a
second longitudinal incision may be made overlying the
palpable radial artery pulse. The cephalic vein is tunneled
superficially and laterally to the radial artery to perform the
anastomosis. This operation is used in obese patients with
good inflow at the wrist and a normal cephalic vein in the

20S Sidawy et al

forearm, which is too deep to allow for successful cannulation if kept in its location and a direct autogenous access is
performed.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– cephalic forearm looped transposition. This autogenous access is performed between the end of the cephalic vein and the
brachial artery in the antecubital fossa. The cephalic vein is
identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa
through a single incision or multiple incisions. The brachial
or proximal radial artery is identified within the proximal
portion of this incision or, if located far away, a second
incision is made overlying the artery. The cephalic vein is
tunneled superficially in a forearm loop to the artery to
perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous radial– basilic forearm transposition. This
autogenous access is performed between the end of the
basilic vein and the radial artery in the forearm. The basilic
vein is identified in the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa. The radial artery is identified through a longitudinal incision directly overlying the palpable radial artery
pulse. The basilic vein is tunneled superficially and laterally
to the radial artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous ulnar– basilic forearm transposition. This
autogenous access is performed between the end of the
basilic vein and the ulnar artery in the forearm. The basilic
vein is identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa. The ulnar artery is identified through a longitudinal incision directly overlying the palpable ulnar artery
pulse. The basilic vein is tunneled superficially and laterally
to the ulnar artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– basilic forearm looped transposition. This autogenous access is performed between the end of the basilic vein and the brachial
or proximal radial artery in the antecubital fossa. The basilic
vein is identified at the wrist and mobilized to the antecubital fossa. The artery is identified within the proximal
portion of this incision or, if located far away, a second
longitudinal incision is made overlying the artery. The
basilic vein is tunneled superficially in a forearm loop to the
artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous radial–antecubital forearm indirect greater
saphenous translocation. This autogenous access is performed between the antecubital vein in the antecubital
fossa and the radial artery in the wrist using the great
saphenous vein as conduit. The antecubital vein is identified through a transverse incision in the antecubital fossa.
The radial artery is identified through a longitudinal incision overlying the palpable radial artery pulse. An appropriate length of great saphenous vein is harvested from the
lower extremity. The great saphenous vein is translocated
to the forearm in a superficial and lateral tunnel between
the antecubital vein and the radial artery to perform the two
anastomoses.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)–antecubital forearm indirect looped greater saphenous translocation. This autogenous access is performed between the antecubital vein and
the brachial or proximal radial artery located in the antecubital fossa using the great saphenous vein as conduit. The

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

antecubital vein and artery are identified through a transverse incision in the antecubital fossa. An appropriate
length of great saphenous vein is harvested from the lower
extremity. The great saphenous vein is translocated to the
forearm in a looped configuration between the antecubital
vein and brachial or proximal radial artery to perform the
two anastomoses.
Upper arm autogenous accesses. Upper arm accesses
have most commonly been based on the brachial artery for
inflow; however, the proximal radial artery is an excellent
choice for inflow as long as there is adequate length of vein
to support the additional 2 to 3 cm of length required to
perform the anastomosis at the proximal radial artery,
which is a few centimeters distal to the brachial artery at the
antecubital fossa. Although confusion may arise regarding
classification of accesses originating from the proximal radial artery, these accesses should be classified as upper arm
accesses except in cases where all access flow is retrograde
into the forearm.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– cephalic upper arm direct access. This autogenous access is performed
between the end of the cephalic vein and the brachial or
proximal radial artery located in the antecubital fossa. If the
cephalic vein and selected artery are close together, the
procedure is performed through one transverse incision; if
not, separate incisions are made and the end of the cephalic
vein is tunneled to the brachial or proximal radial artery to
perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– cephalic upper arm transposition. This autogenous access is performed
between the end of the cephalic vein and the brachial or
proximal radial artery. The cephalic vein is identified at the
elbow and mobilized to an appropriate length to allow its
free end to reach the brachial artery. The brachial artery is
identified through an extension of this incision or, if located
far away, through a second incision overlying the palpable
brachial artery pulse just beyond to the proximal radial artery.
The cephalic vein is tunneled superficially and medially towards the brachial artery to perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial)– basilic upper
arm transposition. This autogenous access is performed
between the end of the basilic vein and the brachial artery
located at or just proximal to the antecubital fossa, or the
proximal radial artery just distal to the fossa. An appropriate
length of adequate basilic vein is completely mobilized
distal to the antecubital crease if possible. The artery is
identified in the distal portion of the incision or, if located
far away, through a second incision overlying the artery.
The basilic vein is tunneled superficially and laterally to the
artery to perform the anastomosis. It is of note that this
transposition as well as others can be performed by onestage or two-stage techniques. A two-stage technique can
be used when the vein to be transposed has a small caliber
(⬍4 mm), where simply anastomosing the end of the vein
to the artery would allow the vein to dilate before its
transposition in the second stage of the two-stage technique.121 Before the second stage is performed, DU study
of the vein can confirm its adequacy. The second stage is

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

performed, usually 4 to 8 weeks later, if the vein is adequately dilated, displays no stenosis, and has adequate flow
volume.121
Autogenous brachial (or proximal radial artery)–brachial
vein upper arm transposition. This autogenous access is performed between the end of the brachial vein and the
brachial artery located in the antecubital fossa. If there is
adequate vein available distally, use of the proximal radial
artery as inflow is another option. The brachial vein and
brachial artery are identified through a longitudinal incision
in the antecubital fossa. The brachial vein is mobilized to
the axilla and tunneled superficially and laterally to the
brachial artery to perform the anastomosis. This transposition is well suited for a two-stage technique because the
vein is quite small, unless it has been arterialized from a
prior forearm access. Further, a two-stage transposition will
result in elongation of the vein during the first stage,
providing the additional vein length that is usually required
to transpose this vein to a lateral subcutaneous tunnel.
Finally, superficialization of the vein can be done if there is
inadequate length to transpose the vein, in which case the
vein should be positioned laterally under a skin flap so that
cannulation does not have to be performed through the
incision site.
Autogenous proximal radial–median antebrachial (or
cephalic) vein, bidirectional flow. This autogenous access is
performed as a side-to-side or end-to-side anastomosis
using the median antebrachial or cephalic vein. Retrograde
flow is established into the forearm by disruption of the first
valve under direct vision with a small probe or reverse
valvulotome. Flow into both the upper arm cephalic vein
and the forearm median antebrachial vein offers the potential for continued and uninterrupted vascular access, should
one of the outflow branches fail. The brachial artery can
also be used as inflow, but use of the proximal radial artery
minimizes the risk of steal syndrome. Further, the side-toside anastomosis maintains flow through multiple venous
channels.122
Autogenous brachial (proximal radial) artery–axillary
vein upper arm indirect greater saphenous translocation.
This autogenous access is performed between the axillary
vein in the axilla and the brachial or proximal radial artery in
or near the antecubital fossa using the great saphenous vein
as conduit. The axillary or proximal brachial vein is identified through a longitudinal incision in the axilla. The artery
is then isolated. An appropriate length of great saphenous
vein is harvested from the lower extremity. The great
saphenous vein is translocated in a superficial and lateral
tunnel between the axillary vein and chosen artery to perform the two anastomoses. The saphenous vein can also be
constructed in loop configuration in the arm or forearm.
Lower extremity autogenous accesses. Autogenous femoral– great saphenous lower extremity looped transposition.
This autogenous access is performed between the end of
the great saphenous vein and the superficial femoral artery
in the groin. The great saphenous vein and common femoral artery are identified through a longitudinal groin incision. The great saphenous vein is mobilized for an appro-

Sidawy et al 21S

priate length. The great saphenous vein is tunneled
superficially and laterally to the superficial femoral artery to
perform the anastomosis.
Autogenous femoral artery–femoral vein lower extremity
transposition (straight). This autogenous access is performed between the end of the femoral vein and the femoral artery. The femoral vein and femoral artery are identified through longitudinal incisions. The femoral vein is
mobilized for an appropriate length, usually into the adductor canal, but not including the popliteal. The femoral
vein is tunneled superficially and laterally to the femoral
artery to perform the anastomosis. In the presence of an
unacceptable distal femoral artery, the vein may be looped
back to the femoral artery in the groin.
Autogenous posterior tibial– greater saphenous lower extremity direct access. This autogenous access is performed
between the great saphenous vein and the posterior tibial
artery in the distal calf. The great saphenous vein and
posterior tibial artery are identified through a longitudinal
incision at the ankle. The distal end of the great saphenous
vein is mobilized to the posterior tibial artery to perform
the anastomosis.123
Configurations of prosthetic AV accesses
Forearm prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic radial–antecubital forearm straight access. This prosthetic access is performed between the antecubital vein in the antecubital
fossa and the radial artery in the wrist using a prosthetic
graft as conduit. The antecubital vein is exposed through a
transverse incision distal to the antecubital crease. The
radial artery is exposed through a longitudinal incision in
the wrist overlying the palpable radial artery pulse. The
prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially and laterally between the antecubital vein and the radial artery to perform
the two anastomoses.
Prosthetic brachial–antecubital forearm looped access. This
prosthetic access is performed between the antecubital vein
and the brachial artery in the antecubital fossa using a
prosthetic graft as conduit. The antecubital vein and brachial artery are exposed through a transverse incision in the
antecubital fossa. The prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially in a forearm loop between the antecubital vein and
the brachial artery to perform the two anastomoses.
Upper arm prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic brachial–axillary (vein) upper arm access. This prosthetic access is performed between the axillary or brachial vein in the axilla and
the brachial artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit. The
axillary vein is exposed through a longitudinal incision in
the axilla. The brachial artery is exposed through a longitudinal incision at or just proximal to the antecubital fossa
overlying the palpable brachial artery pulse. The prosthetic
graft is tunneled superficially and laterally between the
axillary vein and the brachial artery to perform the two
anastomoses.
Lower extremity prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic femoral
artery–femoral vein lower extremity looped access. This prosthetic access is performed between the femoral vein and the
femoral artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit. The

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

22S Sidawy et al

femoral vein and artery are exposed through longitudinal or
transverse incisions. The prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially in a loop between the femoral vein and artery to
perform the two anastomoses.70,124
Body wall prosthetic accesses. Prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest access (necklace prosthetic access). This prosthetic access is performed between the axillary vein and the
contralateral axillary artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit. The axillary vein is exposed through a transverse
infraclavicular incision and is located deep to the pectoralis
major muscle. Through a similar incision, the contralateral
axillary artery is exposed. The prosthetic graft is tunneled
superficially across the chest wall between the axillary vein
and artery to perform the two anastomoses.
Prosthetic axillary–axillary (vein) chest loop access. This prosthetic access is performed between the axillary vein and the
ipsilateral axillary artery using a prosthetic graft as conduit.
The axillary vein and artery are exposed through a transverse infraclavicular incision where they are located deep to
the pectoralis major muscle. The prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially in a loop on the chest wall between the
axillary vein and artery to perform the two anastomoses.
Prosthetic axillary–internal jugular chest loop access. This
prosthetic access is performed between the internal jugular
vein and the ipsilateral axillary artery using a prosthetic graft
as conduit. The internal jugular vein is exposed through a
longitudinal incision just anterior to the sternocleidomastoid muscle and is located in the carotid sheath. The axillary
artery is exposed through a transverse infraclavicular incision and is located deep to the pectoralis major muscle. The
prosthetic graft is tunneled superficially between the internal jugular vein and the axillary artery to perform the two
anastomoses.
Prosthetic axillary–femoral (vein) body wall access. This
prosthetic access is performed between the common femoral vein and the axillary artery using a prosthetic graft as
conduit. The common femoral vein is exposed through a
longitudinal groin incision. The axillary artery is exposed
through a transverse infraclavicular incision and is located
deep to the pectoralis major muscle. The prosthetic graft is
tunneled superficially along the body wall between the
common femoral vein and the axillary artery to perform the
two anastomoses.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: AS, LS, AB, MA, WJ, FP, MM,
VM, AO, KC, RM, AL, EA
Analysis and interpretation: AS, MM, VM
Data collection: Not applicable
Writing the article: AS, LS, AB, MA, WJ, FP, MM, VM,
AO, KC, RM, AL, EA
Critical revision of the article: AS, LS, AB, MA, WJ, FP,
MM, VM, AO, KC, RM, AL, EA
Final approval of the article: AS, LS, AB, MA, WJ, FP, MM,
VM, AO, KC, RM, AL, EA
Statistical analysis: MM, VM
Obtained funding: AS, EA
Overall responsibility: AS

REFERENCES
1. Dhingra RK, Young EW, Hulbert-Shearon TE, Leavey SF, Port FK.
Type of vascular access and mortality in U.S. hemodialysis patients.
Kidney Int 2001;60:1443-51.
2. Young E. Vascular access. Current practice and practical aspects of
management, ASN Renal Week 2000. Toronto: American Society of
Nephrology, 2000. p. 377– 85.
3. Murphy GJ, White SA, Nicholson ML. Vascular access for haemodialysis. Br J Surg 2000;87:1300-15.
4. Ascher E, Gade P, Hingorani A, Mazzariol F, Gunduz Y, Fodera M, et
al. Changes in the practice of angioaccess surgery: impact of dialysis
outcome and quality initiative recommendation. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:
84-92.
5. Kheriakian GM, Roedersheimer LR, Arbaugh JL, Newmark KJ, King
LR. Comparison of autogenous fistula versus expanded polytetrafluoroethylene graft fistula for angioaccess in hemodialysis. Am J Surg
1986;152:238-43.
6. Jennings WC. Creating arteriovenous fistulas in 132 consecutive patients: exploiting the proximal radial artery arteriovenous fistula: reliable, safe and simple forearm and upper arm hemodialysis access. Arch
Surg 2006;141:27-32; discussion 32.
7. Nguyn VD, Griffith C, Treat L. A multidisciplinary approach to
increasing AV fistula creation. Nephrol News Issues 2003;17:54-6.
8. Lok CE. “Fistula first initiative: advantages and pitfalls.” Clin J Am Soc
Nephrol 2007;2:1043-53.
9. National Kidney Foundation’s KDOQI 2006 Vascular Access Guidelines. Am J Kidney Disease 2006:48(suppl 1):S177-322.
10. Arteriovenous Fistula First Breakthrough Coalition. http://www.
fistulafirst.org. Accessed: Dec 9, 2007.
11. National Kidney Foundation. KDOQI guidelines. http://www.
kidney.org/professionals/KDOQI/guideline_upHD_PD_VA/
index.htm. Accessed: Dec 9, 2007.
12. Sidawy AN, Gray R, Besarab A, Henry M, Ascher E, Silva M Jr, et al.
Recommended standards for reports dealing with arteriovenous hemodialysis accesses. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:603-10.
13. Murad MH, Sidawy AN, Elamin MB, Rizvi AZ, Flynn DN, McCausland FR, et al. Timing of referral for chronic hemodialysis vascular
access placement: a systematic review. J Vasc Surg 2008;48(suppl S):
31S-33S.
14. Murad MH, Elamin MB, Sidawy AN, Malaga G, Rizvi A, Flynn D, et
al. Autogenous vs prosthetic vascular access for hemodialysis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg 2008;48(suppl S):34S-47S.
15. Casey E, Murad MH, Rizvi A, Sidawy AN, McGrath MM, Elamin MB,
et al. Surveillance of arteriovenous hemodialysis access: a systematic
review and meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg 2008;48(suppl S):48S-54S.
16. Atkins D, Best D, Briss PA, Eccles M, Falck-Ytter Y, Flottorp S, et al.
Grading quality of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ
2004;328:1490.
17. Besarab A, Adams M, Amatucci S, Bowe D, Deane J, Ketchen K, et al.
Unraveling the realities of vascular access: the Network 11 experience.
Adv Ren Replace Ther 2000;7(4 suppl 1):S65-70.
18. Oliver MJ, Rothwell DM, Fung K, Hux JE, Lok CE. Late creation of
vascular access for hemodialysis and increased risk of sepsis. J Am Soc
Nephrol 2004;15:1936-42.
19. Lacson E Jr, Lazarus JM, Himmelfarb J, Ikizler TA, Hakim RM.
Balancing Fistula First with Catheters Last. Am J Kidney Dis 2007;50:
379-95.
20. Lee T, Barker J, Allon M. Associations with predialysis vascular access
management. Am J Kidney Dis 2004;43:1008-13.
21. Pisoni RL, Young EW, Dykstra DM, Greenwood RN, Hecking E,
Gillespie B, et al. Vascular access use in Europe and the United States:
results from the DOPPS. Kidney Int 2002;61:305-16.
22. Arora P, Obrador GT, Ruthazer R, Kausz AT, Meyer KB, Jenuleson
CS, et al. Prevalence, predictors, and consequences of late nephrology
referral at a tertiary care center. J Am Soc Nephrol 1999;10:1281-6.
23. Patel UD, Young EW, Ojo AO, Hayward RA. CKD progression and
mortality among older patients with diabetes. Am J Kidney Dis 2005;
46:406-14.
24. Avorn J, Winkelmayer WC, Bohn RL, Levin R, Glynn RJ, Levy E, et al.
Delayed nephrologist referral and inadequate vascular access in pa-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

tients with advanced chronic kidney failure. J Clin Epidemiol
2002;55:711-6.
25. Astor BC, Eustace JA, Powe NR, Klag MJ, Sadler JH, Fink NE, et al.
Timing of nephrologist referral and arteriovenous access use: the
CHOICE Study. Am J Kidney Dis 2001;38:494-501.
26. Allon M, Lockhart ME, Lilly RZ, Gallichio MH, Young CJ, Barker J,
et al. Effect of preoperative sonographic mapping on vascular access
outcomes in hemodialysis patients. Kidney Int 2001;60:2013-20.
27. Allon M, Robbin ML. Increasing arteriovenous fistulas in hemodialysis
patients: problems and solutions. Kidney Int 2002;62:1109-24.
28. Dixon BS, Novak L, Fangman J. Hemodialysis vascular access survival:
upper-arm native arteriovenous fistula. Am J Kidney Dis 2002;39:92101.
29. Miller PE, Tolwani A, Luscy CP, Deierhoi MH, Bailey R, Redden DT,
et al. Predictors of adequacy of arteriovenous fistulas in hemodialysis
patients. Kidney Int 1999;56:275-80.
30. Oliver MJ, McCann RL, Indridason OS, Butterly DW, Schwab SJ.
Comparison of transposed brachiobasilic fistulas to upper arm grafts
and brachiocephalic fistulas. Kidney Int 2001;60:1532-9.
31. Schwab SJ, Beathard G. The hemodialysis catheter conundrum:
hate living with them, but can’t live without them. Kidney Int
1999;56:1-17.
32. Ortega T, Ortega F, Diaz-Corte C, Rebollo P, Ma Baltar J, AlvarezGrande J. The timely construction of arteriovenous fistulae: a key to
reducing morbidity and mortality and to improving cost management.
Nephrol Dial Transplant 2005;20:598-603.
33. Pastan S, Soucie JM, McClellan WM. Vascular access and increased
risk of death among hemodialysis patients. Kidney Int 2002;62:620-6.
34. Astor BC, Eustace JA, Powe NR, Klag MJ, Fink NE, Coresh J. Type of
vascular access and survival among incident hemodialysis patients: the
Choices for Healthy Outcomes in Caring for ESRD (CHOICE)
Study. J Am Soc Nephrol 2005;16:1449-55.
35. Allon M, Daugirdas J, Depner TA, Greene T, Ornt D, Schwab SJ.
Effect of change in vascular access on patient mortality in hemodialysis
patients. Am J Kidney Dis 2006;47:469-77.
36. CARI: Caring for Australians With Renal Impairment. http://www.
cari.org.au/dialysis_va_005_pub.php. Accessed: Mar 23, 2008.
37. The Renal Association Clinical Practice Guidelines. http://www.
renal.org/guidelines/module3a.html#VascularAccess. Accessed: Apr
23, 2008.
38. Jindal K, Chan CT, Deziel C, Hirsch D, Soroka SD, Tonelli M, et al.
Hemodialysis clinical practice guidelines for the Canadian Society of
Nephrology. J Am Soc Nephrol 2006;17(3 suppl 1):S1-27.
39. Astor BC, Coresh J, Powe NR, Eustace JA, Klag MJ. Relation between
gender and vascular access complications in hemodialysis patients.
Am J Kidney Dis 2000;36:1126-34.
40. Hakaim AG, Nalbandian M, Scott T. Superior maturation and patency
of primary brachiocephalic and transposed basilic vein arteriovenous
fistulae in patients with diabetes. J Vasc Surg 1998;27:154-7.
41. Caplin N, Sedlacek M, Teodorescu V, Falk A, Uribarri J. Venous
access: women are equal. Am J Kidney Dis 2003;41:429-32.
42. Gibson K, Caps M, Kohler T, Hatsukami TS, Gillen DL, Aldassy M, et
al. Assessment of a policy to reduce placement of prosthetic hemodialysis access. Kidney Int 2001;59:2335-45.
43. Dalman RL, Harris EJ, Victor BJ, Coogan SM. Transition to allautogenous hemodialysis access: the role of preoperative vein mapping. Ann Vasc Surg 2002;16:624-30.
44. Roberts JK, Sideman MJ, Jennings WC. The difficult hemodialysis
access extremity: proximal radial arteriovenous fistulas and the role of
angioscopy and valvulatomes. Am J Surg 2005;190:869-73.
45. Abularrage CJ, Sidawy AN, Weiswasser JM, White PW, Arora S.
Medical factors affecting patency of arteriovenous access. Semin Vasc
Surg 2004;17:25-31.
46. LeSar CJ, Merrick HW, Smith MR. Thrombotic complications resulting from hypercoagulable states in chronic vascular access. J Am Col
Surg 1999;189:73-9.
47. Crowther MA, Clase CM, Margetts PJ. Low intensity warfarin is
ineffective for the prevention of PTFE graft failure in patients on
hemodialysis; a randomized controlled trial. J Am Soc Nephrol 2002;
13:2331-7.

Sidawy et al 23S

48. Dember LM, Kaufman JS, Beck GJ, Dixon BS, Gassman JJ, Greene T,
et al. DAC Study Group. Design of the Dialysis Access Consortium
(DAC) Clopidogrel Prevention of Early AV Fistula Thrombosis Trial.
Clin Trials 2005;2:413-22.
49. Kaufman JS, O’Connor TZ, Zhang JH, Cronin RE, Fiore LD, Ganz
MB, et al. Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study Group on Hemodialysis
Access Graft Thrombosis. Randomized controlled trial of clopidogrel
plus aspirin to prevent hemodialysis access graft thrombosis. J Am Soc
Nephrol 2003;14:2313-21
50. Dember LM, Beck GJ, Allon M, Delmez JA, Dixon BS, Greenberg A,
et al. Dialysis Access Consortium Study Group. Effect of clopidogrel
on early failure of arteriovenous fistulas for hemodialysis: a randomized
controlled trial. JAMA 2008;299:2164-71.
51. Currier CB, Widder S, Ali A, Kuusisto E, Sidawy AN. Surgical management of subclavian and axillary vein thrombosis in patients with a
functioning arterio-venous fistula. Surgery 1986;100:25.
52. Neville RF, Abularrage CJ, White PW, Sidawy AN. Venous hypertension associated with arteriovenous hemodialysis access. Semin Vasc
Surg 2004;17:50-6.
53. Vassalotti J, Falk A, Cohl ED, Uribarri J, Teodorescu V. Obese and
non obese hemodialysis patients have a similar prevalence of functioning arteriovenous fistulas using preoperative vein mapping. Clin Nephrol 2002;58:211-4.
54. Brown PW. Preoperative radiological assessment for vascular access.
Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2006;31:64-9.
55. Wong V, Ward R, Taylor J, Selvakumar S, How TV, Bakran A. Factors
associated with early failure of arteriovenous fistulae for haemodialysis
access. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1996;12:207-13.
56. Malovrh M. Approach to patients with end-stage renal disease who
need an arteriovenous fistula. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2003;18:
v50-2.
57. Silva MB, Hobson RW, Pappas PJ, Jamil Z, Araki CT, Goldberg MC,
et al. A strategy for increasing use of autogenous hemodialysis access
procedures: impact of preoperative noninvasive evaluation. J Vasc Surg
1998;27:302-8.
58. Goldstein LJ, Gupta S. Use of the radial artery for hemodialysis access.
Arch Surg 2003;138:1130-4.
59. Malovrh M. The role of sonography in the planning of arteriovenous
fistulas for hemodialysis. Semin Dial 2003;16:299-303.
60. Geoffroy O, Tassart M, Le Blanche A, Khalil A, Duedal V, Rossert J, et
al. Upper extremity digital subtraction venography with gadoterate
meglumine before fistula creation for hemodialysis. Kidney Int 2001;
59:1491-7.
61. Merten GJ, Burgess WP, Gray LV, Holleman JH, Roush TS, Kowalchuk GJ, et al. Prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy with
sodium bicarbonate. JAMA 2004;291:2328-31.
62. Kay J, Chow WH, Chan TM, Lo SK, Kwok OH, Yip A, et al.
Acetylcysteine for prevention of acute deterioration of renal function
following elective coronary angiography and intervention. JAMA
2003;289:553-7.
63. Marckmann P, Skov L, Rossen K, Dupont A, Damholt MB, Heaf JG,
et al. Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis: suspected causative role of gadodiamide used for contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging.
J Am Soc Nephrol 2006;17:2359-62.
64. Schuman E, Standage BA, Ragsdale JW, Heinl P. Achieving vascular
access success in the quality outcomes era. Am J Surg 2004;187:585-9;
discussion 589.
65. Parmley MC, Broughan TA, Jennings WC. Vascular ultrasonography
prior to dialysis access surgery. Am J Surg 2002;184:568-72.
66. Asif A, Cherla G, Merrill D, Cipleu CD, Tawakol JB, Epstein DL, et al.
Venous mapping using venography and the risk of radiocontrastinduced nephropathy. Semin Dial 2005;18:239-42.
67. Paksoy Y, Gormus N, Tercan MA. Three-dimensional contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (3-D CE-MRA) in the evaluation of hemodialysis access complications, and the condition of
central veins in patients who are candidates for hemodialysis access. J
Nephrol 2004;17:57-65.
68. Turmel-Rodrigues L, Bourquelot P, Raynaud A, Beyssen B, Sapoval
M. Hemodialysis fistula: preoperative MR venography--a promising
but partial view. Radiology 2000;214:302-3.

24S Sidawy et al

69. Laissy JP, Fernandez P, Karila-Cohen P, Delmas V, Dupuy E, Chillon
S, et al. Upper limb vein anatomy before hemodialysis fistula creation:
cross-sectional anatomy using MR venography. Eur Radiol 2003;13:
256-61.
70. Gradman WS, Laub J, Cohen W. Femoral Vein transposition for
arteriovenous hemodialysis access: improved patient selection and
intraoperative measures reduce postoperative ischemia. J Vasc Surg
2005:41:279-84.
71. McCann RL. Axillary grafts for difficult hemodialysis access. J Vasc
Surg 1996:24:257-62.
72. Huber TS, Ozaki CK, Flynn TC, Lee WA, Berceli SA, Hirneise CM, et
al. Prospective validation of an algorithm to maximize native arteriovenous fistulae for chronic hemodialysis access. J Vasc Surg 2002;36:
452-9.
73. Miller A, Holzenbein TJ, Gottlieb MN, Sacks BA, Lavin PT, Goodman WS, et al. Strategies to increase the use of autogenous arteriovenous fistula in end-stage renal disease. Ann Vasc Surg 1997;11:397405.
74. Keuter X, De Smet A, Kessels A, van der Sande F, Welten R, Tordoir
J. A randomized multicenter study of the outcome of brachial-basilic
arteriovenous fistula and prosthetic brachial-antecubital forearm loop
as vascular access for hemodialysis. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:395-401.
75. Fitzgerald JT, Schanzer A, McVicar JP, Chin AI, Perez RV, Troppmann C. Upper arm arteriovenous fistula versus forearm looped arteriovenous graft for hemodialysis access: A comparative analysis. Ann
Vasc Surg 2005;19:843-50.
76. Robbin ML, Oser RF, Lee JY, Heudebert GR, Mennemeyer ST, Allon
M. Randomized comparison of ultrasound surveillance and clinical
monitoring on arteriovenous graft outcomes. Kidney Int 2006;69:
730-5.
77. Cayco AV, Abu-Alfa AK, Mahnensmith RL, Perazella MA. Reduction
in arteriovenous graft impairment: results of a vascular access surveillance protocol. Am J Kidney Dis 1998;32:302-8.
78. Malik J, Slavikova M, Malikova H, Maskova J. Many clinically silent
access stenoses can be identified by ultrasonography. J Nephrol 2002;
15:661-5.
79. Campos RP, Chula DC, Perreto S, Riella MC, do Nascimento MM.
Accuracy of physical examination and intra-access pressure in the
detection of stenosis in hemodialysis arteriovenous fistula. Semin Dial
2008;21:269-73.
80. Dossabhoy NR, Ram SJ, Nassar R, Work J, Eason JM, Paulson WD.
Stenosis surveillance of hemodialysis grafts by duplex ultrasound reduces hospitalizations and cost of care. Semin Dial 2005;18:550-7.
81. Wijnen E, Planken N, Keuter X, Kooman JP, Tordoir JH, de Haan
MW, et al. Impact of a quality improvement programme based on
vascular access flow monitoring on costs, access occlusion and access
failure. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2006;21:3514-9.
82. Karakayali F, Basaran O, Ekici Y, Budakoglu I, Aytekin C, Boyvat F, et
al. Effect of secondary interventions on patency of vascular access sites
for hemodialysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2006;32:701-9.
83. Tessitore N, Mansueto G, Bedogna V, Lipari G, Poli A, Gammaro L,
et al. A prospective controlled trial on effect of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty on functioning arteriovenous fistulae survival. J Am
Soc Nephrol 2003;14:1623-7.
84. Beathard GA, Arnold P, Jackson J, Litchfield T. Physician Operators
Forum of RMS Lifeline: aggressive treatment of early fistula failure.
Kidney Int 2003;64:1487-94.
85. Turmel-Rodrigues L, Mouton A, Birmele B, Billaux L, Ammar N,
Grezard O, et al. Salvage of immature forearm fistulas for hemodialysis by interventional radiology. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2001;
16:2365-71.
86. Singh P, Robbin ML, Lockhart ME, Allon M. Impact of postoperative
ultrasound on salvage of clinically immature arteriovenous fistulas.
Radiology 2008;246:299-305.
87. Robbin ML, Chamberlain NE, Lockhart ME, Gallichio MH, Young
CJ, Deierhoi MH, et al. Hemodialysis arteriovenous fistula maturity:
US evaluation. Radiology 2002;225:59-64.
88. Singh P, Robbin ML, Lockhart ME, Allon M. Clinically immature
arteriovenous hemodialysis fistulas: effect of US on salvage. Radiology
2008;246:299-305.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
November Supplement 2008

89. Malovrh M. Non-invasive evaluation of vessels by duplex sonography
prior to construction of arteriovenous fistulas for hemodialysis. Nephrol Dial Transpl 1998;13:125-9.
90. Yerdel MA, Kesenci M, Yazicioglu KM, Doseyen Z, Turkcapar AG,
Anadol E. Effect of haemodynamic variables on surgically created
arteriovenous fistula flow. Nephrol Dial Transplant 1997;12:1684-8.
91. Rayner HC, Pisoni Rl, Gillespie BW, Goodkin DA, Akiba T, Azikawa
T, et al. Creation, cannulation, and survival of arteriovenous fistulae:
data from the Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study. Kidney
Int 2003;63:323-30.
92. Trerotola SO, Ponce P, Stavropoulos SW, Clark TW, Tuite CM,
Mondschein JI, et al. Physical examination versus normalized pressure
ratio for predicting outcomes of hemodialysis access interventions. J
Vasc Interv Radiol 2003;14:1387-94.
93. Schuman E, Ronfeld A, Barclay C, Heinl P. Comparison of clinical
assessment with ultrasound flow for hemodialysis access surveillance.
Arch Surg 2007;142:1129-33.
94. Asif A, Leon C, Orozco-Vargas LC, Krishnamurthy G, Choi KL,
Mercado C, et al. Accuracy of physical examination in the detection of
arteriovenous fistula stenosis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2007;2:1191-4.
95. Moist LM, Churchill DN, House AA, Millward SF, Elliott JE, Kribs
SW, et al. Regular monitoring of access flow compared with monitoring of venous pressure fails to improve graft survival. J Am Soc Nephrol
2003;14:2645-53.
96. Schwab SJ, Oliver MJ, Suhocki P, McCann R. Hemodialysis arteriovenous access: Detection of stenosis and response to treatment by
vascular access blood flow. Kidney Int 2001;59:358-62.
97. Besarab A, Sullivan KL, Ross RP, Moritz MJ. Utility of intra-access
pressure monitoring in detecting and correcting venous outlet stenoses prior to thrombosis. Kidney Int 1995;47:1364-73.
98. Spergel LM, Holland JE, Fadem SZ, McAllister CJ, Peacock EJ. Static
intra-access pressure ratio does not correlate with access blood flow.
Kidney Int 2004;66:1512-6.
99. Robbin ML, Oser RF, Allon M, Clements MW, Dockery J, Weber
TM, et al. Hemodialysis access graft stenosis: US detection. Radiology
1998;208:655-61.
100. Lumsden AB, MacDonald MJ, Kikeri D, Cotsonis GA, Harker LA,
Martin LG. Prophylactic balloon angioplasty fails to prolong the
patency of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene arteriovenous grafts: results of a prospective randomized study. J Vasc Surg 1997;26:382-92.
101. Ram SJ, Work J, Caldito GC, Eason JM, Pervez A, Paulson WD. A
randomized controlled trial of blood flow and stenosis surveillance of
hemodialysis grafts. Kidney Int 2003;64:272-80.
102. Mayer DA, Zingale RG, Tsapogas MJ. Duplex scanning of expanded
polytetrafluoroethylene dialysis shunts: Impact on patient management and graft survival. Vasc Surg 1993;27:647-58.
103. Malik J, Slavikova M, Svobodova J, Tuka V. Regular ultrasound
screening significantly prolongs patency of PTFE grafts. Kidney Int
2005;67:1554-8.
104. Besarab A. Access monitoring is worthwhile and valuable. Blood Purif
2006;24:77-89.
105. White JJ, Bander SJ, Schwab SJ. Is percutaneous transluminal angioplasty an effective intervention for arteriovenous graft stenosis? Semin
Dial 2005;18:190-202.
106. Slayden GC, Spergel L, Jennings WC. Secondary arteriovenous fistulas: converting prosthetic AV grafts to autogenous dialysis access.
Semin Dial 2008 [published online 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2008.
00459.x].
107. Beathard GA. Interventionalist’s role in identifying candidates for
secondary fistulas. Semin Dial 2004;17:233-6.
108. Sands J, Miranda CL. Increasing numbers of AV fistulas for hemodialysis access. Clin Nephrol 1997;48:114-7.
109. Ponikvar R. Surgical salvage of thrombosed arteriovenous fistulas and
grafts. Ther Apher Dial 2005;9:245-9.
110. Palmer RM, Cull DL, Kalbaugh C, Carsten CG, Taylor SM, Snyder
BA, et al. Is surgical thrombectomy to salvage failed autogenous
arteriovenous fistulae worthwhile? Am Surg 2006;72:1231-3.
111. Bakken AM, Galaria II, Agerstrand C, Saad WE, Surowiec SM, Singh
MJ, et al. Percutaneous therapy to maintain dialysis access successfully

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 48, Number 5S

prolongs functional duration after primary failure. Ann Vasc Surg
2007;21:474-80.
112. Beathard GA, Settle SM, Shields MW. Salvage of the nonfunctioning
arteriovenous fistula. Am J Kidney Dis 1999;33:910-6.
113. Bush RL, Lin PH, Lumsden AB. Management of thrombosed dialysis
access: thrombectomy versus thrombolysis. Semin Vasc Surg 2004;17:
32-9.
114. Sofocleous CT, Cooper SG, Schur I, Patel RI, Iqbal A, Walker S.
Retrospective comparison of the Amplatz thrombectomy device with
modified pulse-spray pharmacomechanical thrombolysis in the treatment of thrombosed hemodialysis access grafts. Radiology 1999;213:
561-7.
115. Dahm JB, Ruppert J, Doerr M, Bordihn N, Maybauer W. Percutaneous laser-facilitated thrombectomy: an innovative, easily applied, and
effective therapeutic option for recanalization of acute and subacute
thrombotic hemodialysis shunt occlusions. J Endovasc Ther 2006;13:
603-8.
116. Palder SB, Kirkman RL, Whittemore AD, Hakim RM, Lazarus JM,
Tilney NL. Vascular access for hemodialysis. Ann Surg 1986;202:
235-9.
117. Zibari GB, Rohr MS, Landreneau MD, Bridges RM, DeValut GA,
Petty FH, et al. Complications from permanent hemodialysis vascular
access. Surgery 1988;104:681-6.

Sidawy et al 25S

118. Imparato AM, Bracco A, Kim GE, Zeff R. Intimal and neointimal
fibrous proliferation causing failure of arterial reconstruction. Surgery
1972;72:1007-17.
119. Bell DD, Rosenthal JJ. Arteriovenous graft life in chronic hemodialysis. Arch Surg 1988;123:1169-72.
120. Eknoyan G, Levin NW, Eschbach JW, Golper TA, Owen WF Jr,
Schwab S, et al. Continuous quality improvement: DOQI becomes
K/ DOQI and is updated. National Kidney Foundation’s Dialysis
Outcomes Quality Initiative. Am J Kidney Dis 2001;37:179-94.
121. Arroyo MR, Sideman MJ, Spergel L, Jennings WC. Primary and
staged transposition arteriovenous fistulas. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:
1279-83.
122. Bruns SD, Jennings WC. Proximal radial artery as inflow site for native
arteriovenous fistula. J Am Coll Surg 2003;197:58-63.
123. Spergel LM, Ravani P, Asif A, Roy-Chaudhury P, Besarab A. Autogenous arteriovenous fistula options. J Nephrol 2007;20:288-98.
124. Jackson MR. The superficial femoral–popliteal vein transposition fistula: description of a new vascular access procedure. J Am Coll Surg
2000:191;581-4.

Submitted Aug 6, 2008; accepted Aug 18, 2008.

