CLINICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINES
Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice guidelines
for management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease
Ali F. AbuRahma, MD,a Efthymios D. Avgerinos, MD, PhD,b Robert W. Chang, MD,c
R. Clement Darling III, MD,d Audra A. Duncan, MD,e Thomas L. Forbes, MD,f Mahmoud B. Malas, MD, MHS,g
Mohammad Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,h Bruce Alan Perler, MD, MBA,i Richard J. Powell, MD,j
Caron B. Rockman, MD,k and Wei Zhou, MD,l Charleston, WVa; Pittsburgh, Pa; San Francisco and La Jolla, Calif;
Albany and New York, NY; London and Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Rochester, Minn; Baltimore, Md; Lebanon, NH; and
Tucson, Ariz

ABSTRACT
Management of carotid bifurcation stenosis in stroke prevention has been the subject of extensive investigations, including
multiple randomized controlled trials. The proper treatment of patients with carotid bifurcation disease is of major interest
to vascular surgeons and other vascular specialists. In 2011, the Society for Vascular Surgery published guidelines for the
treatment of carotid artery disease. At the time, several randomized trials, comparing carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and
carotid artery stenting (CAS), were reported. Since the 2011 guidelines, several studies and a few systematic reviews
comparing CEA and CAS have been reported, and the role of medical management has been reemphasized. In the present
publication, we have updated and expanded on the 2011 guidelines with speciﬁc emphasis on ﬁve areas: (1) is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy for low-risk patients; (2) is CEA recommended over transfemoral CAS for low
surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis of >50%; (3) the timing of carotid intervention for patients
presenting with acute stroke; (4) screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic patients; and (5) the optimal
sequence of intervention for patients with combined carotid and coronary artery disease.
A separate implementation document will address other important clinical issues in extracranial cerebrovascular
disease. Recommendations are made using the GRADE (grades of recommendation assessment, development, and
evaluation) approach, as was used for other Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines. The committee recommends CEA
as the ﬁrst-line treatment for symptomatic low-risk surgical patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic
patients with stenosis of 70% to 99%. The perioperative risk of stroke and death in asymptomatic patients must be <3%
to ensure beneﬁt for the patient. In patients with recent stable stroke (modiﬁed Rankin scale score, 0-2), carotid
revascularization is considered appropriate for symptomatic patients with >50% stenosis and should be performed as
soon as the patient is neurologically stable after 48 hours but deﬁnitely <14 days after symptom onset. In the general
population, screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis in patients without cerebrovascular symptoms
or signiﬁcant risk factors for carotid artery disease is not recommended. In selected asymptomatic patients with an
increased risk of carotid stenosis, we suggest screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis as long as the
patients would potentially be ﬁt for and willing to consider carotid intervention if signiﬁcant stenosis is discovered. For
patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis of 50% to 99%, who require both CEA and coronary artery bypass grafting,
we suggest CEA before, or concomitant with, coronary artery bypass grafting to potentially reduce the risk of stroke
and stroke/death. The sequencing of the intervention depends on the clinical presentation and institutional
experience. (J Vasc Surg 2022;75:4S-22S.)

From the Department of Surgery, West Virginia University-Charleston Division,
Charlestona; the Division of Vascular Surgery, Univeristy of Pittsburgh School

R.C.D., A.A.D., T.L.F., M.B.M., M.H.M., B.A.P., R.J.P., C.B.R., and W.Z. have no conﬂicts of interest.

of Medicine, UPMC Heart & Vascular Institute, Pittsburghb; the Vascular Sur-

Correspondence: Ali F. AbuRahma, MD, Department of Surgery, West Virginia

gery, Permanente Medical Group, San Franciscoc; the Division of Vascular Sur-

University-Charleston Division, 3110 MacCorkle Ave SE, Charleston, WV 25304

gery, Albany Med Vascular, Albanyd; the Division of Vascular & Endovascular

(e-mail: ali.aburahma@camc.org).

Surgery, University of Western Ontario, Londone; the Vascular Surgery, Univer-

Independent peer review and oversight has been provided by members of the

sity of Toronto, Torontof; the Vascular & Endovascular Surgery, University of

SVS Document Oversight Committee (Ruth Bush, Chair, Marc Schermerhorn,

California San Diego, La Jollag; the Mayo Clinic Evidence-based Practice Cen-

Vice-Chair, Keith Calligaro, Yazan Duwayri, Mohammad Eslami, Alik Farber,

ter, Rochesterh; the Division of Vascular Surgery & Endovascular Therapy,

Raul Guzman, Gregory Landry, Katherine McGinigle, J. Sheppard Mondy, John

Johns Hopkins, Baltimorei; the Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock, Leb-

Rectenwald, William Robinson, Britt Tonnessen and Greg Westin).

anonj; the Division of Vascular Surgery, New York University Langone, New

0741-5214

Yorkk; and the Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Arizona, Tucson.l

Copyright Ó 2021 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.

Author conﬂict of interest: E.A. has been paid a consulting fee by Angiodynamics, Medtronic, and BD Medical and is on their speakers’ bureau. A.F.A., R.W.C.,

4S

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2021.04.073

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

5S

Volume 75, Number 1S

TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS ............................
METHODS .....................................................................................
Guideline framework ...........................................................
Evidence synthesis .................................................................
Evidence to decision framework ...............................
Evidence and rationale: Question 1 .........................
Evidence and rationale: Question 2 ........................
CEA vs TF-CAS in symptomatic stenosis .............
Timing of CEA ......................................................................
Transcarotid artery revascularization ......................
Evidence and rationale: Question 3 .........................
Evidence and rationale: Question 4A .....................
Evidence and rationale: Question 4B .....................
Atherosclerotic risk factors and medical
comorbidities predisposing toward an
increased prevalence of carotid artery
stenosis ......................................................................................
Subgroups ....................................................................................
Patients with PAD .............................................................
Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass
surgery ........................................................................................
Asymptomatic patients with an audible
carotid bruit ...........................................................................
Asymptomatic patients with previous neck
irradiation .................................................................................
Patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms .
Patients with clinically occult cerebral
infarction or high-risk factors on brain
imaging .....................................................................................
Evidence and rationale: Question 4C .....................
Evidence and rationale: Question 5 ........................
Patients’ values and preferences ...............................
REFERENCES .............................................................................

5S
6S
6S
7S
7S
8S
9S
9S
10S
10S
11S
13S
13S

13S
14S
14S
15S
15S
15S
16S
16S
17S
18S
18S
18S

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
1. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in low surgical risk patients?
1.1. For low surgical risk patients with asymptomatic
carotid bifurcation atherosclerosis and stenosis of
>70% (documented by validated duplex ultrasound or CTA/angiography), we recommend CEA
with best medical therapy instead of maximal
medical therapy alone for the long-term prevention of stroke and death. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B
(moderate).
2. Is CEA recommended over TF-CAS for low surgical
risk patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis of >50%?
2.1. We recommend CEA over TF-CAS in low- and
standard-risk patients with >50% symptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Level of recommendation: grade
1 (strong); quality of evidence: A (high).

3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention
for patients presenting with acute stroke? Management of acute neurologic syndrome:
3.1. In patients with recent stable stroke (modiﬁed Rankin scale score 0-2), we recommend carotid revascularization for symptomatic patients with >50%
stenosis to be performed as soon as the patient is
neurologically stable after 48 hours but deﬁnitely
before 14 days after the onset of symptoms. Level of
recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
3.2. In patients undergoing revascularization within the
ﬁrst 14 days after the onset of symptoms, we recommend CEA rather than carotid stenting. Level of
recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
3.3. We recommend against revascularization, regardless
of the extent of stenosis for patients who experienced a disabling stroke, have a modiﬁed Rankin
scale score of $3, whose area of infarction is >30%
of the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery territory, or
who have altered consciousness to minimize the
risk of postoperative parenchymal hemorrhage.
These patients can be reevaluated for revascularization later if their neurologic recovery is satisfactory. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: C (low).
4. Screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic patients
4A. Is screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis recommended for the general population?
4.1. We recommend against routine screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis in individuals without cerebrovascular symptoms or signiﬁcant
risk factors for carotid artery disease. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B
(moderate).
4B. Is screening for carotid stenosis recommended for
high-risk asymptomatic patients?
4.2. In selected asymptomatic patients who are at an
increased risk of carotid stenosis, we suggest
screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery
stenosis, especially if patients are willing to consider
carotid intervention if signiﬁcant stenosis is discovered. Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak);
quality of evidence: B (moderate).
4C. What imaging test is best for screening for carotid
stenosis in asymptomatic patients?
4.3. In asymptomatic patients who are undergoing
screening for carotid artery stenosis, we recommend
duplex ultrasound performed in an accredited
vascular laboratory as the imaging modality of
choice instead of CTA, MRA, or other imaging modalities. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: B (moderate).
5. What is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid artery stenosis and CAD?
5.1. For patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis of
50% to 99%, who require both CEA and CABG, we

6S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

suggest CEA before, or concomitant with, CABG to
potentially reduce the risk of stroke and stroke/death.
The sequencing of the intervention depends on the
clinical presentation and institutional experience.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality
of evidence: C (low).
5.2. In patients with severe (70%-99%) bilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis or severe asymptomatic stenosis and contralateral occlusion, we suggest CEA
before, or concomitant with, CABG. Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C
(low).
5.3. In patients requiring carotid intervention, staged or
synchronous with coronary intervention, we suggest
that the decision between CEA and CAS be determined by the timing of procedure, the need for anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, patient anatomy, and
patient characteristics. Level of recommendation:
grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
Management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease
has been the focus of intense investigation and debate
by multiple vascular specialists since the introduction
of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) as a therapeutic modality for the prevention and treatment of stroke more than
several decades earlier. The initial hopes that CEA could
reverse the clinical course of stroke were proved false,
and the role of surgical treatment of extracranial carotid
and vertebral artery disease was deﬁned by the results of
the multicenter randomized clinical trial, the Joint Study
on the Extracranial Circulation.1 That study of 5000 patients established the role of CEA in the treatment of minor stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA), and amaurosis
fugax and conﬁrmed that surgery has a role in the treatment of established stroke, with a limited role for vertebral reconstruction in the treatment of cerebrovascular
insufﬁciency. However, during the subsequent decades,
with surgical reﬁnements to CEA and the increasing
detection of asymptomatic carotid stenosis identiﬁed using noninvasive vascular studies, CEA assumed a primarily prophylactic role for prevention of major stroke in
asymptomatic patients and those with evidence of transient cerebral or ocular ischemia. Large prospective, randomized trials have established the role and efﬁcacy of
CEA in stroke prevention.2-6
During the past two decades, carotid artery stenting
(CAS) has also evolved as a catheter-based alternative
to CEA and medical therapy for stroke prevention and
treatment. Approximately 135,000 interventions on lesions in the carotid bifurcation are performed annually
in the United States. It has been reported that 90% are
performed for patients without neurologic symptoms
and that 11% are catheter-based procedures performed
by a variety of specialists, including vascular surgeons,
general surgeons, neurosurgeons, cardiologists, thoracic
surgeons, interventional radiologists, and interventional
neurologists.7 However, others believe that the best

data we have regarding symptom status come from
the Vascular Quality Initiative (VQI) and National Surgical
Quality Improvement Program, with the proportion
closer to 60% to 70%.8 Also, although these data might
not be generalizable to the entire U.S. population, they
are far better than the Nationwide Inpatient Sample
data.8
Because multiple options can be available for the treatment of a single disease entity, deﬁning the optimal therapy can be challenging, especially, when multiple
specialties, often with nonoverlapping expertise, are
involved in these treatment options. Thus, extensive and
often conﬂicting literature has developed around the current standard for the diagnosis and management of
extracranial carotid disease. Four large, prospective, randomized trials have been reported comparing the efﬁcacy
of CEA and CAS in the management of extracranial carotid stenosis.9-12 A meta-analysis comparing CAS and
CEA, which included some of these trials, was published
in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.13 Another recent
meta-analysis conducted by the Mayo Clinic Evidence
Practice Center and comparing CAS and CEA for symptomatic standard surgical risk patients also will be reported in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.14
In 2011, the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) published clinical practice guidelines for the management of extracranial carotid artery disease in the
Journal of Vascular Surgery. 15 A multispecialty document also was published on the “Management of Patients with Extracranial Carotid and Vertebral Artery
Disease.“16 More recently, the European Society for
Vascular Surgery published their guidelines “Management of Atherosclerotic Carotid and Vertebral Artery
Disease: 2017 Clinical Practice Guidelines of the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS).“17 Because
of these publications, the Society for Vascular Surgery
elected to update their 2011 guidelines, because
vascular surgeons play a major, if not predominant,
role in the treatment of patients with carotid bifurcation disease.

METHODS
Guideline framework
The writing committee met several times, both in person and via several conference calls, to select the most
important issues and questions of major interest to the
clinician to be addressed in the clinical practice guidelines. A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted by the Mayo Clinic Evidence Practice Center to
address these questions, which will be reported separately in the Journal of Vascular Surgery. These ﬁve issues
and questions were as follows:
1. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy
for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in low surgical risk
patients?

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

7S

Volume 75, Number 1S

2. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral (TF)-CAS for
low surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid
artery stenosis of >50%?
3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention in
patients presenting with acute stroke?
4. Screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic
patients
5. What is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid and coronary artery disease (CAD)?
However, because several other important topics could
not be covered in the clinical practice guidelines (eg,
optimal modern medical therapy and risk factor modiﬁcation, transcarotid artery reconstruction [TCAR]), these
topics were addressed in separate comprehensive implementation document, which will be used as a reference
for further details regarding the treatment of patients
with extracranial cerebrovascular disease.
Each member of the committee was assigned responsibility for compiling information pertinent to a speciﬁc
area of the document. These data were distributed to
all members for review, and each area was subsequently
discussed via conference calls. A consensus of the recommendation and level of evidence to support it was
reached. Each recommendation in this document represents the unanimous opinion of the writing group.
The committee used the GRADE (grades of recommendation assessment, development, and evaluation)
approach to rate the certainty of evidence (conﬁdence
in the estimates) and to grade the strength of the recommendations.18 This system, adopted by >100 other organizations, has been adapted by the SVS to express the
level of certainty as A, B, and C, consistent with high, moderate, and low certainty; respectively. The GRADE system
categorizes recommendations as strong (grade 1) or
weak, also called conditional (grade 2) according to the
certainty of the evidence, the balance between desirable
and undesirable effects, patient values and preferences,
and other decisional factors. Grade 1 recommendations
are meant to identify practices for which the beneﬁt
clearly outweighs the risk and can be adopted as a standard of care. Grade 2 recommendations are made when
the beneﬁts and risks are more closely matched or less
certain; a situation in which shared decision-making is
critical. A detailed explanation of the GRADE approach
has been previously presented to the vascular surgery
community.19,20 The committee reached consensus for

all the recommendations and the level of supporting
evidence.
Evidence synthesis
The committee commissioned several systematic reviews, which will be reported separately in a document
titled “Society for Vascular Surgery Technical Review Supporting Guidelines on the Management of Carotid Artery
Disease.“14 The protocols and inclusion criteria for the reviews were determined a priori through collaboration
between the committee and the Mayo Clinic EvidenceBased Practice Center. The questions selected for the
present guidelines were speciﬁed using the PICO (population, intervention, comparison, outcomes) framework
and chosen based on the daily clinical dilemmas
encountered by patients and surgeons in practice.
Patient-important outcomes were chosen for decisionmaking.21 Meta-analyses were conducted when
appropriate.
To make the guidelines more practical and helpful to
clinicians, the committee drafted a second document
to provide the implementation details and facilitate
adoption and operationalization of the recommendations.22 The implementation document is not an SVS
guideline and should be considered as best practice
identiﬁed by the committee based on their knowledge
of the reported data and their clinical expertise.
Evidence to decision framework
The guideline committee considered patient values
and preferences and the feasibility and acceptability
of the recommended interventions. The availability of
surgical expertise and institutional experience were
also factors that were considered when making the
recommendations. Stroke prevention was considered
the most critical outcome across all guideline questions, and the overall certainty of the evidence was
dependent on the certainty for this outcome. The
guideline committee made strong recommendations
for the third question (timing of revascularization)
despite the variable certainty of the direct evidence,
based on additional indirect evidence and by placing
greater value on avoiding the possibility of any worsening of neurologic deﬁcits. The strong recommendation against routine screening for average risk
patients was determined by the lack of comparative
studies showing improvement in outcomes with
screening.

Question 1: Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy for low surgical risk patients?
Patients
Asymptomatic low-risk
patients with >70%
internal carotid artery
stenosis

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

CEA

Maximal medical therapy

Stroke and death at 1
and 5 years

Study
design
Randomized controlled trial

8S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

Evidence and rationale
Several randomized controlled trials (RCTs) compared
CEA and best medical therapy. The results of the ACAS
(asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis study)2 and ACST
(asymptomatic carotid surgery trial)5 favored CEA in the
treatment of low surgical risk patients with severe asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. The ACAS, which randomized 1662 patients to immediate CEA vs medical therapy
demonstrated the superiority of CEA over antiplatelet
therapy alone for asymptomatic patients with carotid stenosis of >60% (5.1% for surgical patients and 11.0% for patients treated medically; aggregate risk reduction, 53%;
95% conﬁdence interval [CI], 22%-72%).2 The ACAS recommended CEA for patients aged <80 years as long as
the expected combined stroke and mortality rate for
the individual surgeon was not >3%. The conclusions
from the ACAS were supported by a subsequent larger
RCT that had randomized 3120 patients to immediate
CEA vs medical therapy.5 That trial also showed an advantage in limiting stroke and death at 5 years for CEA
compared with maximal medical therapy (4.1% vs 10.0%;
95% CI, 4.0%-7.8%). The long-term effectiveness of CEA
for asymptomatic patients was conﬁrmed by the longterm results of the ACST, as reported by Halliday et al.23
That trial had compared CEA and a medical arm, in which
patients had primarily received antithrombotic and antihypertensive therapy. The results showed that the CEA
arm (patients aged <75 years) experienced signiﬁcantly
lower perioperative and 10-year stroke rates (13.3% vs
17.9%).23 The strength of these conclusions has been questioned owing to the relatively modest absolute beneﬁts of
CEA and the contention that the medical therapy arm did
not reﬂect contemporary medical management.24,25 The
question of whether modern medical therapy (including
statins) is equivalent or superior to CEA or CAS has not
yet been addressed by well-designed, appropriately
funded, prospective, multicenter, and randomized trials.
However, when the stroke rate of the patients receiving
lipid-lowering medication in the ACST trial was analyzed,
the patients who had undergone CEA with lipid-lowering
medication had a lower stroke incidence compared with
the medical therapy arm. However, the effect of CEA was
not as great (0.7% vs 1.3% annually; P < .0001) for those
receiving lipid-lowering therapy compared with 1.8% vs
3.3% annually (P < .0001) for those not receiving lipidlowering therapy.23
More recently, Howard et al26 conducted a prospective
population-based cohort study (Oxford vascular study)
and systematic review and meta-analysis to analyze the
correlation between ipsilateral stroke and the degree of
asymptomatic carotid stenosis in patients treated with
contemporary best medical therapy. They enrolled 2354
consecutive patients (2178 patients with carotid imaging
studies), including 207 with 50% to 99% asymptomatic
carotid stenosis. The ipsilateral stroke rate at 5 years for
the patients with 70% to 99% carotid stenosis was

14.6% (6 of 53) compared with 0% for the 154 patients
with 50% to <70% stenosis (P < .0001). For patients
with 80% to 99% carotid stenosis, the ipsilateral stroke
rate was signiﬁcantly greater than that for those with
50% to <80% stenosis: 5 of 34 (18.3%) vs 1 of 173 (1%;
P < .0001). In their systematic review of 56 reports and
13,717 patients, 23 studies provided data on ipsilateral
stroke and the degree of asymptomatic carotid stenosis
in 8419 patients. Ipsilateral stroke was also linearly associated with the degree of ipsilateral carotid stenosis (P <
.0001). Patients with 70% to 99% carotid stenosis (386
of 3778 patients) had a greater risk of ipsilateral stroke
than those with 50% to <70% stenosis (181 of 3806 patients; odds ratio [OR] 2.1; P < .0001). They concluded
that the beneﬁt of CEA might have been underestimated for patients with severe stenosis (>70%). In addition, the 5-year stroke risk was relatively low in those
patients with <70% stenosis receiving contemporary
best medical therapy.26
Concerns have also been raised regarding whether the
results of the previously described controlled trials could
be attained in vascular surgical practice outside of clinical
trials. Critics pointed out that these trials had been performed at centers of excellence and that the patients
had been highly selected. However, subsequent reports
of patients who would have been excluded from these trials suggested that the exclusion criteria did not falsely
lower the complication rates. The combined stroke and
death rates after CEA for patients deﬁned as high risk or
eligible for high-risk carotid registries varied from 1.4% to
3.6%, well within the American Heart Association guidelines.27-29 Similarly, studies of large National Surgical Quality Improvement Program, state, and Medicare databases
of 4000 to 35,000 patients demonstrated stroke and
death rates as low as 2.2%, with a maximum of 6.9%
(symptomatic patients only), suggesting that the results
that conform to national guidelines are achievable across
large patient populations.7,30,31 The role of TF-CAS or transcervical carotid artery revascularization (TCAR) is even less
clear because no completed studies have compared
these treatments for patients with asymptomatic carotid
stenosis against best medical therapy.
Several upcoming, multicenter randomized trials have
been designed to answer the role of modern pharmacologic therapy in the management of asymptomatic
carotid stenosis. These trials include the SPACE-II
(stent-protected angioplasty in asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis) study25 and CREST-2.32
Recommendation 1.1: In low surgical risk patients
with asymptomatic carotid bifurcation atherosclerosis
and stenosis of >70% (documented by validated
duplex ultrasound or computed tomography angiography [CTA]/angiography), we recommend CEA with
best medical therapy over maximal medical therapy
alone for the long-term prevention of stroke and death
(grade IB).

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

9S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Question 2. Is CEA recommended over TF-CAS for low surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis of
>50%?
Patients
Symptomatic low-risk
patients with >50%
internal carotid artery
stenosis

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Subgroups

CEA

TF-CAS

Stroke, death, and
myocardial
infarction

RCT

30 days, >30 days, $5 years

Evidence and rationale
Once a patient with clinically signiﬁcant symptomatic carotid stenosis has been identiﬁed, appropriate treatment
must be selected. Treatment is primarily directed at the
reduction of stroke risk. In general, the rates of stroke,
myocardial infarction (MI), and death have been used
when comparing CAS against CEA. In most clinical trials
comparing CAS with CEA, stroke, MI, and death have
been given equal weight in determining a composite
endpoint to test overall efﬁcacy. Data from the CREST (carotid revascularization endarterectomy vs stenting trial),9
however, indicated that stroke has a more signiﬁcant effect
on patients’ quality of life at 1 year than does nonfatal MI.
Because the primary goal of intervention for carotid stenosis is stroke prevention, in developing the recommendations, the committee placed more emphasis on the
prevention of stroke and procedurally related death than
on the occurrence of periprocedural MI. This could have
resulted in committee recommendations that differed
from the reported results from some trials in which these
three endpoints were given equal weight in the analysis.
The threat of stroke in symptomatic patients with <50%
stenosis has generally been considered to be small and
typically will not warrant intervention. The ECST (European Carotid Surgery Trial) and NASCET (North American
Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial) demonstrated that CEA was unable to reduce the subsequent
neurologic event rates in patients with symptoms of cerebral ischemia and bifurcation stenosis of <50% diameter
reduction and was actually associated with increased
morbidity compared with medical management.33-35
NASCET and ECST both demonstrated the beneﬁt of
CEA compared with maximal medical treatment for
neurologically symptomatic patients with carotid stenosis with a reduced diameter of >50%.6,33-35 NASCET
demonstrated a relative risk (RR) reduction of 65% and
an absolute risk reduction in stroke of 17% at 2 years
(26% in the medical arm vs 9% in the surgical arm) for
patients with >70% carotid stenosis. ECST demonstrated
a similar reduction in stroke risk after 3 years. The medical arm had a 26.5% stroke risk compared with 14.9% in
the surgical group, an absolute risk reduction of 11.6%.
In both studies, the risk of stroke in the medical arm
and, therefore, the beneﬁt of CEA, increased with an
increasing degree of stenosis. The results of these trials
established CEA as the treatment of choice for patients

with severe carotid stenosis and have been widely
accepted throughout the medical community. The
beneﬁt of CEA for those with stenosis of 50% to 69%
was more moderated15.7% rate of stroke after CEA vs
22.2% rate of stroke with medical therapy at 5 yearsdbut
the difference was still statistically signiﬁcant.4
CEA vs TF-CAS in symptomatic stenosis
A number of trials have examined the role of TF-CAS in
the management of neurologically symptomatic patients
with >50% diameter stenosis. Several early trials such as
SAPPHIRE (stenting and angioplasty with protection in
patients at high risk for endarterectomy) of high surgical
risk patients demonstrated overall equivalence of CAS
and CEA in the management of carotid stenosis, although
the number of symptomatic patients was too small for a
subgroup analysis.36 Two large prospective randomized
European trials, EVA-3S (endarterectomy vs angioplasty
in patients with symptomatic severe carotid stenosis)11
and SPACE1 (stent-supported percutaneous angioplasty
of the carotid artery vs endarterectomy),12 examined the
role of CAS vs CEA in neurologically symptomatic patients.
EVA-3S showed statistically inferior 30-day outcomes for
CAS compared with CEA. The 30-day incidence of any
stroke or death was 3.9% after CEA (95% CI, 2.0-7.2) and
9.6% after TF-CAS (95% CI, 6.4-14.0). The RR of any stroke
or death after CAS compared with CEA was 2.5 (95% CI,
1.2-5.1). The 30-day incidence of disabling stroke or death
was 1.5% after CEA (95% CI, 0.5-4.2) and 3.4% after CAS
(95% CI, 1.7-6.7); the RR was 2.2 (95% CI, 0.7-7.2). However,
EVA-3S study was criticized because of the relatively low
level of experience (minimum of 12 CAS cases or 35
supra-aortic trunk cases, of which 5 were CAS procedures)
required in the CAS arm. The SPACE trial was designed to
test the “equivalence” between CEA and CAS for patients
with neurologic symptoms. However, the trial was
stopped after the recruitment of 1200 patients owing to
the futility of proving equivalence between the two treatments. The rate of death or ipsilateral stroke at 30 days
was 6.84% for CAS and 6.34% for CEA in for randomized
patients. However, the study was not powered appropriately and failed to show the noninferiority of CAS
compared with CEA (P < .09).12 More recently, two large
randomized trials comparing CEA and TF-CAS for symptomatic patients were completed. The ICST (international
carotid stenting study trial) enrolled 1713 patients and

10S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

demonstrated an increased periprocedural stroke risk
with CAS (7.7%) compared with CEA (4.1%) in neurologically symptomatic patients.10 The observed difference
was statistically signiﬁcant (P < .002). The rate of any
stroke or death within 30 days after treatment in the
CAS group was more than twice the rate recorded for
the CEA group (7.4% vs 3.4%; P< .0004). In addition, the
composite endpoint of stroke, death, and MI signiﬁcantly
favored CEA (5.2%) vs CAS (8.5%; P < .006). These ﬁndings
were similar to those for the symptomatic patients
enrolled in the CREST (carotid revascularization endarterectomy vs stenting trial).9 In the CREST, the periprocedural rate of stroke and death was signiﬁcantly greater
after TF-CAS than after CEA for symptomatic patients
(6.0% 6 0.9% vs 3.2% 6 0.7%; hazard ratio [HR], 1.89;
95% CI, 1.11-3.21; P < .02). The rate of MI was lower after
CAS than after CEA for symptomatic patients (1.0% 6
0.4% vs 2.3% 6 0.6%; HR, 0.45; 95% CI, 0.18-1.11; P < .08);
however, the differences were not signiﬁcant. The CSTC
(Carotid Stenosis Trialists’ Collaboration) performed a
meta-analysis of 4754 patients from the four randomized
trials comparing CEA and TF-CAS. These investigators
demonstrated a CEA vs TF-CAS periprocedural HR of 1.61
(95% CI, 0.90-2.88), in favor of CEA for patients aged 65
to 69 years and an HR of 2.09 (95% CI, 1.32-3.32) for patients aged 70 to 74 years.37 If octogenarians (>80 years)
were removed from the data to allow the CREST ﬁndings
to be compared with those from other trials in which such
patients were not enrolled, the results demonstrated that
the 30-day stroke and death rate was signiﬁcantly lower
for patients undergoing CEA (2.6% 6 0.7% for CEA and
5.6% 6 1.0% for CAS; P ¼ .006).37 The pooled analysis of
30-day outcomes of stroke and death were lower for
symptomatic patients treated with CEA vs TF-CAS14 (Fig 1).
The long-term outcomes of CAS vs CEA for symptomatic patients were examined using a preplanned pooled
analysis of individual patient data from the EVA-3S,
SPACE, ICSS, and CREST studies.38 These four trials randomized a total of 4754 symptomatic patients with
>50% internal carotid artery stenosis. The median length
of follow-up was 2 to 6.9 years. The risk of stroke or death
within 120 days of the index procedure was 5.5% for CEA
and 8.7% for CAS (risk difference, 3.2%; 95% CI, 1.7-4.7). After the periprocedural period of 120 days, no differences
were found in the annual rate of late ipsilateral stroke
(annual event rate, 0.60% for CEA vs 0.64% for CAS).
These ﬁndings lend support that both procedures have
similar durability, although the long-term outcomes
have continued to favor CEA owing to the lower periprocedural stroke and death rate (Figs 2 and 3).
Concern might exist regarding whether the data from
RCTs of CEA and CAS can be extrapolated to real world
experience. In general, those performing CAS in these trials were highly experienced and rigorously adjudicated
before being allowed to enroll patients. In a review of
physicians treating Medicare beneﬁciaries with

Fig 1. Thirty-day death and stroke. CAS, Carotid artery
stenting; CEA, carotid endarterectomy; CI, conﬁdence interval; RR, relative risk.

CAS, <10% of physicians would have met the criteria to
participate in the CREST owing to a lack of volume or a
high complication rate.39 It is unclear whether results
similar to those from RCTs will be obtained for CAS by
operators who might be less experienced or for patients
who would not be eligible for clinical trials. Nolan et al40
reviewed data from the Vascular Study Group of New England and showed a higher rate of stroke and death for
symptomatic patients treated with CAS compared with
those treated with CEA (5.1% with CAS vs 1.6% with
CEA; P ¼ .001). Similarly, Hicks et al41 studied almost
52,000 carotid procedures in the VQI and found that
for symptomatic high-risk patients (determined using
Medicare criteria), the risk of stroke and death after
CEA was 2.3% compared with 3.6% after CAS (P < .001).
The difference in the stroke rate was twofold greater for
CAS in both the general population and the
propensity-matched patient cohorts (HR, 2.23; 95% CI,
1.58-3.15; P < .001).41 The lower stroke and death rates
observed in registries includes only in-hospital events
and, as such, could be lower than those observed in clinical trials that use 30-day event rates and mandatory
postprocedure
evaluations
by
an
independent
neurologist.
Timing of CEA. Increasing evidence has shown that
CEA provides maximum beneﬁt if performed
in <14 days for patients presenting with TIA or amaurosis
fugax.17 Natural history studies reported that the incidence of recurrent symptoms after the index TIA ranges
from 5% to 8% at 48 hours, 4% to 17% at 72 hours, 8% to
22% at 7 days, and 11% to 25% at 14 days.17
Transcarotid artery revascularization
Early data suggested that TCAR might have a role in the
treatment of patients with symptomatic carotid occlusive disease. Studies have shown that TCAR results in a
similar rate of infarcts using diffusion-weighted imaging
(DWI) on postprocedure magnetic resonance imaging
compared with CEA and that TF-CAS is associated with
a two-to threefold greater rate of DWI.42 Up to 50% of
the infarcts on DWI and strokes that occur after TF-CAS
were contralateral, suggesting arch pathology as the etiology.43 Two recent trials, ROADSTER-1 (safety and efﬁcacy study for reverse ﬂow used during carotid artery
stenting procedure) and ROADSTER-2 (post-approval

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

11S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Fig 2. Five-year risk of death. CAS, Carotid artery stenting;
CEA, carotid endarterectomy; CI, conﬁdence interval; RR,
relative risk.

Fig 3. Five-year risk of any stroke. CAS, Carotid artery
stenting; CEA, carotid endarterectomy; CI, conﬁdence interval; RR, relative risk.

cranial nerve injury and shorter hospital stays. The effect
of developing a TCAR program on overall carotid revascularization outcomes was examined by Columbo et al.49
They compared the risk of major adverse cardiovascular
events (MACE), deﬁned as stroke, death, and MI, in centers
that performed only CEA vs the risk of MACE in centers
that performed both CEA and TCAR. At 1 year, the incidence of MACE was 10% lower at the centers that performed both TCAR and CEA vs CEA alone (OR, 0.9; 95%
CI, 0.81-0.99; P ¼ .04).49 Although these studies appear
promising and have been supported by a clinical competency statement from the SVS,50 it is important to
remember that to date the vast majority of TCAR procedures have been performed in patients at high anatomic or
medical risk for CEA and the data at present are inadequate to make a recommendation on the role of TCAR
for low surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid
stenosis. In summary, TCAR is superior or preferable to
TF-CAS or CEA for patients with high anatomic and/or
physiologic surgical risk (more detail provided in the
Implementation Document).
Recommendation 2.1.: We recommend CEA over TFCAS for low- and standard-risk patients with >50%
symptomatic carotid artery stenosis (grade IA).

Question 3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention in patients presenting with acute stroke?
Patients
Patients presenting
with stroke with
>50% ipsilateral
carotid stenosis

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Subgroups

Urgent CEA or CAS

Early vs delayed
intervention

Patients with
Rankin scale score
of #2 will beneﬁt
from early
intervention

Retrospective

CEA #48 hours,
1 week, 2 weeks,
and 6 weeks after
index event

study of transcarotid artery revascularization in patients
with signiﬁcant carotid artery disease) have been
completed.44-46 The incidence of 30-day stroke in the
symptomatic per protocol patients in both trials was
0.6% in each trial. No deaths occurred in the per protocol
symptomatic patients in ROADSTER-2 for a combined
30-day stroke and death rate of 0.6%.44,45 A more recent
study examined 3286 propensity-matched patients from
the VQI and demonstrated a signiﬁcantly lower incidence of in-hospital stroke and death for the patients
treated with TCAR vs TF-CAS (1.6% vs 3.1%; RR, 0.51; 95%
CI, 0.37-.72).47 No difference was found in MI between
the groups. Finally, Malas et al48 examined a more recent
cohort of patients from the VQI Transcarotid Revascularization Project. These investigators propensity score
matched 6384 pairs of patients who had undergone
either TCAR or CEA. In this cohort, 3333 symptomatic patients were compared.48 No differences were found in the
in-hospital stroke and death rates between the symptomatic patients undergoing TCAR vs CEA (2.2% vs 2.6%; P ¼
.46), and TCAR was associated with a lower incidence of

Evidence and rationale
Acute stroke is often associated with intracranial
thrombosis or embolization. Thus, a major management goal is to identify those patients with intracranial
occlusions and to reperfuse the ischemic brain as
rapidly as possible. Primarily, therapy should be directed
at the intracranial occlusion that affects a signiﬁcant
amount of the vasculature and resultant brain at risk.
Only w15% of patients with acute stroke will present
within the 6-hour window for acute intervention. However, as techniques and diagnosis have improved, neurointerventionalists have expanded this therapeutic
window.
Many patients present outside this 6-hour therapeutic
window. Intervention for these patients is directed at
the carotid bifurcation rather than the intracranial circulation, with the goal of preventing recurrent events rather
than re-establishing intracranial ﬂow in the occluded
arteries.
However, for patients with acute stroke who present
obtunded or severely neurologically debilitated, it is

12S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

often necessary to delay CEA because they could have a
greater risk of hemorrhagic transformation of an infarct
or intracerebral hemorrhage. Patients with a signiﬁcant
neurologic deﬁcit (modiﬁed Rankin scale score >2),
with an area of infarction >30% of the middle cerebral
artery territory and those with altered consciousness
should not undergo CEA until signiﬁcant neurologic
improvement has occurred. Factors that have been
found to inﬂuence outcomes include the extent of
hemispheric involvement, the time to the initiation of
therapy, time to perfusion, patient age, blood glucose,
and female sex. The most important of these appears
to be the degree of hemispheric involvement (<30% of
middle cerebral artery by volume), time to reperfusion,
and age.51-53
Patients with an acute ﬁxed deﬁcit of >6 hours’ duration and a mild to moderate deﬁcit can be considered
for carotid intervention after a period of medical stabilization. Waiting >14 days could increase the risk of recurrent neurologic events by 10% to 20%.54
Numerous series have documented the safety of early
CEA (0-14 days after the index event). In a single-center
series, Sharpe et al55 reported a 30-day death and stroke
rate of 2.4% when patients had undergone CEA within
48 hours of symptom onset. Other registry data from Germany, Sweden, the United States, and single-series reports from the United States have shown equally good
results for CEA performed within the ﬁrst week but not
within the ﬁrst 48 hours.56-59 In an analysis of the VQI of
8408 patients, the results were comparable among the
patients who had undergone surgery after 48 hours
but <14 days after stroke and those who had undergone
surgery >14 days after the index event.59 When the cohorts were stratiﬁed by 3 to 8 days and 8 to 14 days, the
multivariate analysis demonstrated that performing
CEA at 3 to 7 days after stroke was protective for postoperative stroke/death (P ¼ .003) and any postoperative
complication (P ¼ .028). The investigators concluded
that surgery should be delayed for $48 hours after acute
stroke and should be performed within 14 days after the
stroke.59 Avgerinos et al60 corroborated these data, suggesting CEAs performed 2 to 5 days after the index
neurologic event will have outcomes similar to the outcomes of CEAs performed later.
These ﬁndings conﬁrmed the results of an analysis of
the Swedish Vascular Registry, including 2596 patients
who had undergone CEA for symptomatic carotid stenosis, including stroke. The combined stroke/death
rate was 11.5% among those who had undergone

surgery within the ﬁrst 2 days of the neurologic event
compared with 3.6%, 4.0%, and 5.4% among those
who had undergone CEA at 3 to 7, 8 to 14, and 15 to
180 days after the acute neurologic event, respectively.
A multivariate analysis demonstrated that patients
who underwent CEA within the ﬁrst 2 days after an
acute neurologic event experienced a relative OR of
4.24 (95% CI, 2.07-8.70; P < .001) for perioperative complications compared with those undergoing surgery
within 3 to 7 days.58 These data were corroborated by
Hasan et al14 in their meta-analysis concerning the
timing of the intervention after index stroke. Avgerinos
et al60 demonstrated an increased risk of complications
if CEA were performed within 48 hours of the index
event (RR, 2.3053) for stroke but no difference between
2 and 14 days. This short delay could allow for a more
complete patient evaluation and to allow the symptoms
to stabilize and plateau.
The preponderance of evidence indicates that CEA performed early (<2 weeks) after an acute stroke is preferable
to a delay of 4 to 6 weeks to CEA.61-67 The data on CAS in
the setting of acute stroke are scant, even in the recent
meta-analysis by Hasan et al.14 Most reports were based
on anecdotal studies; thus, we could not draw any signiﬁcant conclusions regarding the beneﬁts of CAS for acute
strokes with carotid-based lesions. At present, CEA is the
procedure of choice for patients with stable strokes and
>50% carotid bifurcation stenosis.
Recommendations for management of acute neurologic syndrome
3.1: For patients with a recent stable stroke (modiﬁed
Rankin scale score, 0-2), we recommend carotid revascularization for symptomatic patients with >50% stenosis to be performed as soon as the patient is
neurologically stable after 48 hours but deﬁnitely
before 14 days after the onset of symptoms (grade IB).
3.2: For patients undergoing revascularization within
the ﬁrst 14 days after the onset of symptoms, we
recommend CEA rather than CAS (grade IB).
3.3: We recommend against revascularization,
regardless of the extent of stenosis, for patients who
have experienced a disabling stroke, have a modiﬁed
Rankin scale score of $3, whose area of infarction is
>30% of the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery territory, or who have altered consciousness to minimize
the risk of postoperative parenchymal hemorrhage.
These patients can be reevaluated for revascularization later if their neurologic recovery is satisfactory
(grade IC).

Question 4A. Is screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis recommended in the general population?
Patients
General population
with no symptoms of
cerebrovascular
disease

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Screening for carotid artery disease with Duplex
ultrasound

No screening

Prevalence of $50% carotid
stenosis and incidence of
stroke or death related to
carotid disease

Any

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

13S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Evidence and rationale
No consensus has been reached on which patient populations should undergo carotid screening for the detection of asymptomatic carotid disease, and no direct
evidence is available on the beneﬁts of screening
regarding the actual outcomes of future stroke. The
rationale behind screening for asymptomatic disease
has been determined by the assumptions that unheralded stroke is often the ﬁrst symptom of signiﬁcant carotid atherosclerosis and that the medical, surgical, or
endovascular treatment of identiﬁed severe carotid artery stenosis can prevent future cerebral infarction. The
efﬁcacy of screening is directly related to the prevalence
of disease in the designated population. Screening has
been found to reduce the risk of stroke in a costeffective manner when the prevalence of signiﬁcant stenosis is $20%.68 However, with a prevalence of <5% in
the general population,68,69 screening does not appear
to reduce the stroke risk and might, in fact, be harmful
if it leads to inappropriately performed invasive procedures. In addition, the rate of false-positive carotid Duplex
ultrasound ﬁndings could be increased in a population
with such a low prevalence of disease.70 Because of the
relatively low prevalence of disease, widespread
screening of the general population, therefore, is clearly
not indicated. This position is supported by multiple professional organizations, including the National Stroke Association, Canadian Stroke Consortium,71,72 and the U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force.70
Recommendation 4.1: We recommend against the
routine screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid
artery stenosis for individuals without cerebrovascular
symptoms or signiﬁcant risk factors for carotid artery
disease (grade IB).

Therefore, speciﬁc high-risk asymptomatic populations
have been proposed as appropriate for carotid screening.
The American Stroke Association/American Heart Association Stroke Council concluded that screening of
highly selected populations might be of beneﬁt.73 Multiple societies, including the American College of Cardiology Foundation and others, have recommended
screening for asymptomatic patients with a carotid bruit
found on physical examination and for those for whom
coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is planned.74 The
SVS has advocated for consideration of carotid artery
screening of high-risk patients aged $55 years with cardiovascular risk factors.75
Several groups have attempted to further reﬁne and
identify the population subsets for whom the prevalence
of carotid stenosis is $20%, which would possibly justify
screening of asymptomatic patients. In a report of a
single-institution screening program, a model identifying
patients at high risk of $50% asymptomatic stenosis was
proposed. The patients screened were >60 years old and
had had one or more of the following risk factors: hypertension, CAD, current cigarette smoking, and/or a
ﬁrst-degree family member with a history of stroke. The
prevalence of signiﬁcant stenosis was only 2% if none of
these risk factors were present but increased dramatically with the coexisting presence of additional risk factors. The prevalence of carotid stenosis was 14% with
two risk factors, 16% with three risk factors, and 67%
with four risk factors.76 In another analysis from the
same institution, patients with both hypertension and
known cardiac disease of any type had a prevalence of
carotid stenosis of $50% of 22.1%.77
Similarly, a report from the Western New York stroke
screening program identiﬁed the following variables to

Question 4B. Is screening for carotid stenosis recommended for high-risk asymptomatic patients?
Patients

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Subgroups

Patients with
signiﬁcant risk factors
for carotid
atherosclerosis but
no symptoms of
cerebrovascular
disease

Screening for
carotid artery
disease with
Duplex
ultrasound

No screening

Prevalence of $50% carotid stenosis and incidence of stroke or death
related to carotid
disease

Any

Patients with atherosclerotic risk factors,
peripheral arterial disease, AAA, CAD, audible
neck bruit, previous
radiotherapy to the
neck, ﬁndings of cerebral infarction on brain
imaging studies

Evidence and rationale
Atherosclerotic risk factors and medical comorbidities predisposing toward an increased prevalence of
carotid artery stenosis. Screening has been found to
reduce the risk of stroke in a cost-effective manner
when the prevalence of signiﬁcant stenosis is $20%.68

be associated with $60% carotid stenosis: age
$65 years (OR, 4.1), current smoking (OR, 2), CAD (OR,
2.4), and hypercholesterolemia (OR, 1.9).78 Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery were noted to have
a prevalence of signiﬁcant carotid stenosis of 8%. The
American College of Cardiology/American Heart

14S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

Association guidelines noted that screening before
CABG is probably indicated for the following subset of
patients: age $65 years; the presence of left main coronary artery stenosis; a history of smoking, a history of
TIA, stroke, or carotid bruit; and known peripheral arterial
disease (PAD).78 Based on these and other reports, the
SVS does advocate carotid artery screening for high-risk
patients aged $55 years with appropriate cardiovascular
risk factors.75,79
Other investigators have noted that the prevalence of
occult carotid stenosis is increased in those with diabetes
compared with those without diabetes (8.7% vs 2.8%; P <
.01)80 and in patients requiring hemodialysis and undergoing tunneled catheter placement (9.8%).81 In a study of
1500 subjects speciﬁcally recruited for carotid screening,
the overall prevalence of signiﬁcant stenosis was 5.2%.
The independent predictors of an increased prevalence
of carotid stenosis included hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cigarette smoking, hypercholesterolemia, and a
family history of stroke.82 One investigator reported that
screening of asymptomatic patients is appropriate if
they were aged $60 years and had three or more traditional atherosclerotic risk factors.83
However, few direct comparative studies have evaluated the efﬁcacy of screening with respect to the actual
clinical outcomes of stroke or death. Most reported
studies have used the prevalence of signiﬁcant carotid
stenosis in the studied populations as the actual
outcome measure. In a report by Berens et al,84 >1000
patients aged $65 years who were undergoing cardiac
surgery were screened with carotid duplex ultrasound
scans before surgery. The prevalence of disease was
17% for those with $50% stenosis and 5.9% those with
$80% stenosis. Using multivariate analysis, ﬁve variables
were found to be signiﬁcant independent predictors of
$80% stenosis: female sex, peripheral vascular disease,
a history of TIA or stroke, a positive smoking history,
and the presence of left main coronary disease. If all patients with at least one of those risk factors were
screened, the mathematical model predicted that 95%
of the patients with $80% stenosis would be identiﬁed
before their cardiac operation.84
Lin et al85 reported the outcomes of 3233 patients
who had undergone cardiac surgery. They performed
comparisons between those who had undergone preoperative carotid duplex ultrasound scanning (n ¼
515) and those who had not (n ¼ 2718). No difference
was found in the risk factors or a history of previous
TIA between the two cohorts. Among the patients
who had undergone screening with ultrasound before
isolated CABG (n ¼ 306), the incidence of signiﬁcant
disease was relatively low: 25 (8.2%) had had unilateral
moderate (50%-69%) stenosis, 10 (3.3%) bilateral moderate stenosis, 9 (2.9%) unilateral severe (70%-99%) stenosis, 2 (0.7%) bilateral severe stenosis, 5 (1.6%)
unilateral total occlusion, and 1 (0.3%) bilateral total

occlusion. The outcomes regarding perioperative mortality and stroke did not differ between those who
had and those who had not undergone duplex ultrasound. Operative intervention of severe carotid stenosis
before CABG was performed in 2 of 17 patients identiﬁed (11.8%).85
When the results of these two studies were combined
in a systematic review and meta-analysis, screening in
these deﬁned populations did reveal a beneﬁt with regard to the mortality outcome and less so for the stroke
outcome (Fig 4). Additionally, the systematic review
revealed that certain patient cohort populations might
be expected to have an approximate prevalence of
$20% of signiﬁcant carotid artery stenosis even if asymptomatic, making them appropriate to consider for
screening (Fig 5)14:
Patients with current cigarette smoking
Patients with hypertension and CAD
d Patients with renal failure and diabetes, hypertension,
or CAD
d Patients with hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and
CAD
d
d

Subgroups
Patients with PAD. Patients with lower extremity PAD
have an increased prevalence of carotid artery stenosis
and might beneﬁt from screening.86,87 The prevalence
of $60% carotid artery stenosis in patients with symptomatic lower extremity PAD is likely $20% and was
nearly 25% in one epidemiologic study.87
Multiple studies have conﬁrmed the high prevalence of
carotid artery stenosis in patients with lower extremity
PAD.86,88-97 In one study of >400 patients with PAD undergoing surgery, patients with occult carotid stenosis
were also noted to have an increased risk of stroke in
the postoperative period.96 In that study, the risk of stroke
in patients with symptomatic high-grade stenosis was
ameliorated by performing CEA either before or simultaneously with the designated arterial bypass surgery.96
However, it has generally been accepted that if carotid
stenosis is asymptomatic, intervention for critical limb
ischemia can proceed before consideration of carotid
revascularization. Nevertheless, carotid screening for patients with lower extremity PAD is clearly appropriate,
considering the markedly increased risk of occult disease.
Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.
Multiple reports have documented a markedly increased
prevalence of occult carotid artery stenosis in patients
with CAD, especially in those undergoing coronary artery
bypass surgery.84,85,98-107 Two direct comparative studies
regarding screening of CABG patients using the actual
outcomes of stroke and death have been previously
discussed in detail.84,85,98-107 An increased prevalence of
carotid stenosis has also been documented in patients
undergoing coronary angioplasty.108 Among patients

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

15S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Fig 4. Comparative studies. CI, Conﬁdence interval; RR,
relative risk.

undergoing coronary artery bypass, the presence of a
carotid bruit and diabetes mellitus increased the predictive value.104 Additionally, carotid stenosis in coronary
bypass patients has been noted to be a risk factor for
perioperative stroke.104 Considering the prevalence of
occult carotid disease, carotid screening for patients
undergoing coronary artery bypass is believed to be
appropriate. However, the evidence in favor of screening
for patients with documented CAD without plans for
coronary artery bypass procedures is less robust.
Asymptomatic patients with an audible carotid
bruit. The ﬁnding of an audible bruit in the neck is
believed to be a sign of turbulent blood ﬂow at the bifurcation and of carotid artery atherosclerosis. However, this
physical ﬁnding is not particularly speciﬁc or sensitive for
clinically signiﬁcant carotid artery stenosis. In a reported
meta-analysis of studies describing the relationship between carotid bruit and carotid stenosis, 28 prospective
cohort studies involving >17,000 patients were
analyzed.109 The stroke rate was 1.6 per 100 patient-years
for those with bruits compared with 1.3 per 100 patientyears for those without carotid bruits. Thus, the
presence of a carotid bruit likely increases the risk of
cerebrovascular disease and, therefore, might justify
screening of otherwise asymptomatic patients.
In the Northern Manhattan study, the presence of
$60% carotid stenosis was 2.2%, and the presence of a
carotid bruit was 4.1% among 686 asymptomatic subjects.110 The positive predictive value of an ipsilateral carotid bruit was 25%, and the negative predictive value
was 99%. The sensitivity, speciﬁcity, and overall accuracy
was 56%, 98%, and 97.5%, respectively. However, in
another observational study of >1500 patients who had
undergone carotid ultrasound speciﬁcally because of
the presence of an audible bruit, 31% had had signiﬁcant
($50%) stenosis.111 However, for the patients with 50% to

99% carotid stenosis, the presence of a carotid bruit had
an accuracy of 75%, sensitivity of 71%, speciﬁcity of 81%,
and positive likelihood ratio of 3.65. Therefore, although
carotid bruits are not necessarily accurate enough to
conﬁrm or exclude the presence of signiﬁcant carotid
stenoses, these signs are thought to be an appropriate
indication for further directed screening with carotid
duplex ultrasound, especially if the carotid bruit is noted
in a patient with other atherosclerotic risk factors.
Asymptomatic patients with previous neck irradiation. With the increased use and success of radiotherapy
to treat head and neck malignancies, the survival of patients with these diseases has achieved remarkable progress.112 Vascular injury and carotid stenosis have received
increased attention. Patients who have undergone neck
irradiation >5 years earlier have an eight times greater
risk of developing carotid stenosis compared with those
with a postradiotherapy interval of <5 years. Severe
postradiotherapy carotid stenosis is also associated with
older age, smoking, and heart disease. Patients who have
undergone radiotherapy of the head and neck might
have a prevalence of signiﬁcant carotid stenosis that
would justify screening in asymptomatic patients.113 The
greatest incidence of carotid stenosis was noted
w15 years after radiation exposure, with ipsilateral rates
of stenosis as high as 21.3%.15,113,114 Unlike typical
atherosclerotic disease, which often involves only the
carotid bifurcation, the distribution of radiation-induced
carotid disease can also involve the proximal common
carotid arteries. The presence of extensive proximal disease would have obvious implications for surgical or
endovascular treatment of such lesions, if indicated.
It has been proposed by some that patients with previous radiotherapy should undergo screening duplex evaluations even in the absence of clinical cerebrovascular
symptoms.114 However, the optimal timing and frequency of such screening are undeﬁned, and this
concept has not been universally accepted. The evidence
does not appear to be sufﬁcient to recommend routine
screening for asymptomatic patients with previous
neck radiotherapy in the absence of other deﬁned risk
factors.
Patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms. Although
patients with PAD and severe CAD are clearly at greatly
increased risk of having occult carotid artery stenosis,
the correlation in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) is not as robust. The prevalence of carotid
stenosis of $70% was 8.8% in a population of patients
with AAAs compared with 12.5% in a cohort of PAD patients.115 In a prospective study of patients with AAAs,
the prevalence of asymptomatic carotid stenosis of
$70% was 10.8%.116 No correlation was noted between
the size of the AAA and the degree or presence of carotid

16S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

Fig 5. Noncomparative studies (yield of screening for carotid stenosis cases based on risk factor). CAD, Coronary
artery disease; CI, conﬁdence interval; DM, diabetes mellitus; HTN, hypertension; Hyperchol, hypercholesterolemia,
PAD, peripheral artery disease; RF, renal failure.

stenosis. In an additional report of 332 patients with AAA
who had undergone carotid duplex ultrasound scans, a
greater prevalence of carotid stenosis was noted, with
30.4% found to have $50% stenosis in one or both carotid arteries.117 However, several additional studies have
revealed the prevalence of carotid stenosis in patients
with AAAs to be <20%.118 Clearly, the correlation of carotid atherosclerosis with isolated abdominal aneurysmal disease is not thought to be as signiﬁcant as the
relationship with coronary and lower extremity atherosclerotic occlusive disease. Therefore, routine screening
for carotid stenosis in asymptomatic patients with AAAs
but without other deﬁned high-risk factors is not
recommended.119
Patients with clinically occult cerebral infarction or
high-risk factors on brain imaging. Finally, asymptomatic patients in whom brain imaging has identiﬁed cerebral infarction despite the absence of any corresponding
history of neurologic symptoms represent a population
that might beneﬁt from imaging of the carotid artery.
An increased subsequent stroke rate of 4.4% in patients
with 60% to 79% initially asymptomatic stenosis has
been reported if a silent infarct was identiﬁed on brain
imaging studies.120 Therefore, screening is generally recommended for patients with asymptomatic cerebral
infarctions.120 The detection of cerebral emboli using
transcranial Doppler (TCD) studies also had a high positive predictive value to identify asymptomatic patients at
high risk of stroke. The patients with two or more
microemboli per hour on TCD studies had a markedly

increased risk of 1-year ipsilateral ischemic stroke
compared with patients with asymptomatic carotid
stenosis without TCD-detected microemboli (15.6% vs
1.0%, respectively; P < .0001).121 However, at present, it is
unclear how this technology might be practically applied
to all asymptomatic patients with known carotid
stenosis.
Recommendation 4.2 In selected asymptomatic patients who are at an increased risk of carotid stenosis,
we suggest screening for clinically asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis, especially if patients are willing
to consider carotid intervention if signiﬁcant stenosis
is discovered (grade 2B). These high-risk groups include
Patients with lower extremity PAD
Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery
d Patients aged $55 years with at least two traditional
atherosclerotic risk factors
d Patients aged $55 years and active cigarette smoking
d Patients with diabetes, hypertension, or CAD
d Patients with clinically occult cerebral infarction noted
on brain imaging studies
d
d

Additional remarks.
1. In these patient cohorts, the presence of a carotid
bruit increases the likelihood of detecting signiﬁcant
stenosis
2. Asymptomatic individuals with an AAA or previous
radiotherapy to the neck who do not meet the criteria
for any of the high-risk groups noted above do not
require screening

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

17S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Question 4C. What imaging test is best for screening for carotid stenosis in asymptomatic patients?
Patients

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Asymptomatic patients
undergoing
screening for carotid
stenosis

Imaging study

Duplex ultrasound or
other imaging study
(CTA, magnetic resonance angiography)

Sensitivity and speciﬁcity
in identiﬁcation of $50%
and $70% carotid
stenosis

Any

Evidence and rationale
The most important features of imaging of carotid bifurcation disease are the degree of stenosis and the character
of the plaque.2,6,15,33,122 A greater degree of stenosis is generally thought to represent a progressively increased risk of
future stroke.6,33 However, plaque morphology also clearly
plays a signiﬁcant role.122 The morphologic features of the
plaque likely related to the risk of future stroke include heterogeneity, measurement of plaque area and juxtaluminal
black area, gray-scale median, and echogenicity.
Duplex ultrasound is safe, accurate, and reliable.
Because it is heavily dependent on technique, it should
be performed in an accredited ultrasound laboratory.15
Duplex ultrasound is the ﬁrst-line imaging modality for
carotid artery imaging, screening, and the identiﬁcation
of patients with 70% to 99% stenosis of the internal carotid artery.75,123 The rationale for the widespread use of
Duplex ultrasound include its low cost, ease of performance, and robust sensitivity (85%-92%) and speciﬁcity
(84%).123,124 Consensus ultrasound criteria for diagnosing
the varying degrees of carotid artery stenosis have been
extensively developed, widely used, and validated.125
Duplex ultrasound also has the ability to evaluate features of plaque morphology that might indicate patients
with a high risk of stroke.122
Determination of the degree of carotid stenosis is determined by an analysis of the hemodynamic parameters obtained from Doppler ultrasound analysis, including the
peak systolic and end-diastolic velocities. The ultrasound
criteria for the degree of carotid stenosis should be deﬁned
by the angiographic and imaging correlation in each
vascular laboratory. The most commonly recognized
consensus criteria include a cutoff peak systolic velocity of
the internal carotid artery of $125 cm/s to denote angiographic stenosis of $50%. A combination of peak systolic
velocity of 230 cm/s and an end-diastolic velocity of
$100 cm/s or a peak systolic velocity ratio between the internal and common carotid artery of $4 can be used to predict a stenosis of $70%.126 Using these criteria, the reported
sensitivity, speciﬁcity, and accuracy of duplex ultrasound in
predicting 50% to 69% or $70% stenosis were 93%, 68%,

and 85% and 99%, 86%, and 95%, respectively.125 The major
limitations of duplex ultrasound include its dependence on
a skilled operator and its inability to completely image the
proximal and intracranial vasculature. Certain anatomic
features can also reduce the accuracy of duplex ultrasound
imaging, including severe vascular calciﬁcation and arterial
tortuosity.15
At present, contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance
angiography (MRA) can provide three-dimensional images that can rival those of formal arteriography.75 Its
main advantages include the absence of radiation and
the avoidance of iodinated-based contrast materials.
Additionally, MRA can be combined with magnetic resonance imaging of the brain, delineating clinically silent
cerebral infarction. It can also evaluate plaque
morphology, in particular, the presence of intraplaque
hemorrhage.127 Contraindications include the presence
of metallic implants, including some pacemakers and
deﬁbrillators. MRA has no role, however, in screening for
carotid artery disease, owing to its considerable expense.
Multidimensional CTA can be used to rapidly and accurately evaluate soft tissue, bone, and vascular structures
simultaneously. It is also able to evaluate the extent of vessel
calciﬁcation, especially in the aortic arch. CTA is less likely to
overestimate the severity of carotid stenosis compared
with MRA.15,75 The requirement for radiation and the use
of contrast remain its most signiﬁcant limitations. CTA is
not appropriate for screening purposes, because of its signiﬁcant cost and the degree of radiation exposure.75
Catheter arteriography was previously considered the
reference standard in the evaluation of carotid artery stenosis, especially preoperatively before CEA.75 Because of
its invasive nature and small, but present, risk of complications, it has no role in screening for extracranial cerebrovascular disease.
Recommendation 4.3: For asymptomatic patients
who are undergoing screening for carotid artery stenosis, we recommend duplex ultrasound performed in an
accredited vascular laboratory as the imaging modality of choice instead of CTA, MRA, or other imaging modalities (grade 1B).

Question 5. what is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid and coronary disease?
Patients

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Subgroups

Patients with both
carotid stenosis
>70% and CAD
requiring CABG

CEA or CAS
and CABG

Combined CEA
and CABG or
CABG ﬁrst or
CEA ﬁrst

Stroke, death, MI,
combined stroke/
death

RCT,
observational

Asymptomatic,
carotid stent

18S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

Evidence and rationale
The recommendation for staged or synchronous carotid interventions in patients with 50% to 99% stenosis
and a history of stroke or TIA in the preceding 6 months
who require CABG is supported by the reported
data.128-133 However, the optimal timing for these interventions is unclear. In patients with severe (>70%) stenosis and symptomatic disease, minimal studies have
addressed the timing of the interventions.134 In an analysis of multiple observational studies, patients undergoing combined CABG and CEA compared with CABG
ﬁrst had a similar risk of death (RR, 0.58; 95% CI, 0.321.05), stroke (RR, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.34-2.22), and MI (RR,
0.64; 95% CI, 0.09-4.34).14 When comparing CABG ﬁrst
vs CEA ﬁrst, the groups had a similar risk of death (RR,
0.94; 95% CI, 0.44-2.01), stroke (RR, 1.4; 95% CI, 0.643.06), and MI (RR, 0.51; 95% CI, 0.22-1.18). Finally, if the
CABG ﬁrst group were compared with the CEA ﬁrst
group, the risks of death, stroke, and MI were also similar.
As expected, a small trend was found toward a greater
risk of MI if CEA were performed ﬁrst and an increased
trend toward a risk of stroke if CABG were performed
ﬁrst; however, these differences were not signiﬁcant.
One of the most controversial issues is the role of prophylactic CEA and/or CAS in CABG patients with unilateral 70% to 99% asymptomatic stenosis, for whom the
stroke risk might be <2%.135,136 Two RCTs and several
observational series compared combined CEA and
CABG with a strategy of CABG ﬁrst and delayed CEA in
patients with unilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis.137,138 In the series by Illuminati et al,137 the risk of
stroke with CABG ﬁrst was greater than that in the combined series; however, in the series by Weimar et al,138 the
contrary was true. Owing to small numbers in both series,
these differences were not signiﬁcant; therefore, one
must assess larger series to obtain meaningful
interpretations.
For patients undergoing CAS, a trend was found for
decreased mortality with CAS ﬁrst; however, the
number of patients assessed was small.14 If the option of carotid intervention is considered as either
CEA or CAS, when comparing combined carotid
intervention vs carotid intervention ﬁrst for asymptomatic patients, the endpoints of stroke and
stroke/death are slightly favored in the carotid intervention group.14 Because these data are based primarily on observational data, the certainty of the
conclusions remains low.
Patients’ values and preferences
Patients undergoing CABG already have an increased
risk of stroke and, therefore, many would prefer combined treatment to potentially decrease their risk with
one procedure. However, if patients are severely symptomatic from either coronary disease or carotid disease,
they might be more likely to wish for symptomatic relief

rather than overall risk reduction. If anatomically suitable,
CAS seems favorable for symptomatic patients. In addition, patients with CAD amenable to percutaneous coronary intervention should undergo such intervention,
followed by treatment of the carotid stenosis. In addition,
patients should be considered for CEA with regional
anesthesia before CABG, if possible.139-141
Recommendation 5.1. For patients with symptomatic
carotid stenosis of 50% to 99%, who require both CEA
and CABG, we suggest CEA before, or concomitant
with, CABG to potentially reduce the risk of stroke
and stroke/death. The sequencing of the intervention
depends on the clinical presentation and institutional
experience (grade 2C).
5.2. For patients with severe (70%-99%) bilateral
asymptomatic carotid stenosis or severe asymptomatic stenosis and contralateral occlusion, we suggest
CEA before or concomitant with CABG (grade 2C).
5.3. For patients requiring carotid intervention, staged
or synchronous with coronary intervention, we suggest
that the decision between CEA and CAS be determined by the timing of the procedure, the need for
anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, patient anatomy, and patient characteristics (grade 2B).

REFERENCES
1. Fields WS, North RR, Hass WK, Galbraith JG, Wylie EJ, Ratinov G,
et al. Joint study of extracranial arterial occlusion as a cause of
stroke. I. Organization of study and survey of patient population.
JAMA 1968;203:955-60.
2. Endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Executive
Committee for the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study.
JAMA 1995;273:1421-8.
3. Randomised trial of endarterectomy for recently symptomatic carotid stenosis: ﬁnal results of the MRC European Carotid Surgery
Trial (ECST). Lancet 1998;351:1379-87.
4. Barnett HJ, Taylor DW, Eliasziw M, Fox AJ, Ferguson GG, Haynes RB,
et al. Beneﬁt of carotid endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic moderate or severe stenosis. North American Symptomatic
Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators. N Engl J Med 1998;339:
1415-25.
5. Halliday A, Mansﬁeld A, Marro J, Peto C, Peto R, Potter J, et al. Prevention of disabling and fatal strokes by successful carotid endarterectomy in patients without recent neurological symptoms:
randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2004;363:1491-502.
6. Barnett HJM, Taylor DW, Haynes RB, Sackett DL, Peerless SJ,
Ferguson GG, et al. Beneﬁcial effect of carotid endarterectomy in
symptomatic patients with high-grade carotid stenosis. N Engl J
Med 1991;325:445-53.
7. Eslami MH, McPhee JT, Simons JP, Schanzer A, Messina LM. National trends in utilization and postprocedure outcomes for carotid artery revascularization 2005 to 2007. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:
307-15.
8. Bensley RP, Yoshida S, Lo RC, Fokkema M, Hamdan AD, Wyers MC,
et al. Accuracy of administrative data versus clinical data to evaluate
carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:
412-9.
9. Brott TG, Hobson RW II, Howard G, Roubin GS, Clark WM, Brooks W,
et al. Stenting versus endarterectomy for treatment of carotidartery stenosis. N Engl J Med 2010;363:11-23.
10. Ederle J, Dobson J, Featherstone RL, Bonati LH, van der Worp HB, de
Borst GJ, et al. Carotid artery stenting compared with endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis (International
Carotid Stenting Study): an interim analysis of a randomised
controlled trial. Lancet 2010;375:985-97.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

19S

Volume 75, Number 1S
11. Mas JL, Chatellier G, Beyssen B, Branchereau A, Moulin T,
Becquemin JP, et al. Endarterectomy versus stenting in patients
with symptomatic severe carotid stenosis. N Engl J Med 2006;355:
1660-71.
12. Ringleb PA, Allenberg J, Bruckmann H, Eckstein HH, Fraedrich G,
Hartmann M, et al. 30 Day results from the SPACE trial of stentprotected angioplasty versus carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients: a randomised non-inferiority trial. Lancet
2006;368:1239-47.
13. Murad MH, Shahrour A, Shah ND, Montori VM, Ricotta JJ.
A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials of carotid endarterectomy vs stenting. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:792-7.
14. Hasan B, Nayfeh T, Amin M, Malandris K, Abd-Rabu R, Shah S, et al.
Society for Vascular Surgery technical review supporting guidelines
on the management of carotid artery disease. J Vasc Surg 2021. In
press.
15. Ricotta JJ, Aburahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P, Lal BK.
Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines for management
of extracranial carotid disease. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:e1-31.
16. Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, Bacharach JM, Barr JD, Bush RL,
et al. 2011 ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/SAIP/SCAI/
SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on the management of patients with
extracranial carotid and vertebral artery disease: a report of the
American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and the American Stroke
Association, American Association of Neuroscience Nurses, American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American College of
Radiology, American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of
Neurological Surgeons, Society of Atherosclerosis Imaging and
Prevention, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society
for Vascular Surgery. J Am Coll Cardiol 2011;57:e16-94.
17. Naylor AR, Ricco JB, de Borst GJ, Debus S, de Haro J, Halliday A, et al.
Editor’s choice e management of atherosclerotic carotid and
vertebral artery disease: 2017 clinical practice guidelines of the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS). Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2018;55:3-81.
18. Murad MH. Clinical practice guidelines: a primer on development
and dissemination. Mayo Clin Proc 2017;92:423-33.
19. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for Vascular
Surgery including the experience with the GRADE framework.
J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
20. Murad MH, Swiglo BA, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Montori VM. Methodology for clinical practice guidelines for the management of arteriovenous access. J Vasc Surg 2008;48(suppl):26s-30s.
21. Gandhi GY, Murad MH, Fujiyoshi A, Mullan RJ, Flynn DN, Elamin MB,
et al. Patient-important outcomes in registered diabetes trials.
JAMA 2008;299:2543-9.
22. AbuRahma AF, Avgerinos EM, Chang RW, Darling RC III, Duncan AA,
Forbes TL, et al. Updated Society for Vascular Surgery implementation document for management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease [e-pub ahead of print]. J Vasc Surg, https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.jvs.2021.04.074. Accessed July 30, 2021.
23. Halliday A, Harrison M, Hayter E, Kong X, Mansﬁeld A, Marro J, et al.
10-Year stroke prevention after successful carotid endarterectomy
for asymptomatic stenosis (ACST-1): a multicentre randomised trial.
Lancet 2010;376:1074-84.
24. Marquardt L, Geraghty OC, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM. Low risk of ipsilateral stroke in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis on
best medical treatment: a prospective, population-based study.
Stroke 2010;41:e11-7.
25. Reiff T, Stingele R, Eckstein HH, Fraedrich G, Jansen O, Mudra H,
et al. Stent-protected angioplasty in asymptomatic carotid artery
stenosis vs. endarterectomy: SPACE2da three-arm randomisedcontrolled clinical trial. Int J Stroke 2009;4:294-9.
26. Howard DPJ, Gaziano L, Rothwell PM. Risk of stroke in relation to
degree of asymptomatic carotid stenosis: a population-based
cohort study, systematic review, and meta-analysis. Lancet Neurol
2021;20:193-202.
27. Gasparis AP, Ricotta L, Cuadra SA, Char DJ, Purtill WA, Van
Bemmelen PS, et al. High-risk carotid endarterectomy: fact or ﬁction. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:40-6.

28. Mackey WC, O’Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD. Carotid endarterectomy contralateral to an occluded carotid artery: perioperative
risk and late results. J Vasc Surg 1990;11:778-83; discussion:
784-5.
29. Mozes G, Sullivan TM, Torres-Russotto DR, Bower TC, Hoskin TL,
Sampaio SM, et al. Carotid endarterectomy in SAPPHIRE-eligible
high-risk patients: implications for selecting patients for carotid
angioplasty and stenting. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:958-65; discussion:
965-6.
30. Bunch CT, Kresowik TF. Can randomized trial outcomes for carotid
endarterectomy be achieved in community-wide practice? Semin
Vasc Surg 2004;17:209-13.
31. Chiriano J, Abou-Zamzam AM Jr, Nguyen K, Molkara AM,
Zhang WW, Bianchi C, et al. Preoperative carotid duplex ﬁndings
predict carotid stump pressures during endarterectomy in symptomatic but not asymptomatic patients. Ann Vasc Surg 2010;24:
1038-44.
32. Howard VJ, Meschia JF, Lal BK, Turan TN, Roubin GS, Brown RD Jr,
et al. Carotid revascularization and medical management for
asymptomatic carotid stenosis: protocol of the CREST-2 clinical
trials. Int J Stroke 2017;12:770-8.
33. European Carotid Surgery Trialists’ Collaborative Group. MRC European carotid surgery trial: interim results for symptomatic patients with severe (70-99%) or with mild (0-29%) carotid stenosis.
Lancet 1991;337:1235-43.
34. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial.
Methods, patient characteristics, and progress. Stroke 1991;22:711-20.
35. Rothwell PM, Eliasziw M, Gutnikov SA, Fox AJ, Taylor DW,
Mayberg MR, et al. Analysis of pooled data from the randomised
controlled trials of endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis. Lancet 2003;361:107-16.
36. Yadav JS, Wholey MH, Kuntz RE, Fayad P, Katzen BT, Mishkel GJ,
et al. Protected carotid-artery stenting versus endarterectomy in
high-risk patients. N Engl J Med 2004;351:1493-501.
37. Howard G, Roubin GS, Jansen O, Hendrikse J, Halliday A,
Fraedrich G, et al. Association between age and risk of stroke or
death from carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting: a metaanalysis of pooled patient data from four randomised trials. Lancet 2016;387:1305-11.
38. Brott TG, Calvet D, Howard G, Gregson J, Algra A, Becquemin JP,
et al. Long-term outcomes of stenting and endarterectomy for
symptomatic carotid stenosis: a preplanned pooled analysis of individual patient data. Lancet Neurol 2019;18:348-56.
39. Nallamothu BK, Gurm HS, Ting HH, Goodney PP, Rogers MA,
Curtis JP, et al. Operator experience and carotid stenting outcomes
in Medicare beneﬁciaries. JAMA 2011;306:1338-43.
40. Nolan BW, De Martino RR, Goodney PP, Schanzer A, Stone DH,
Butzel D, et al. Comparison of carotid endarterectomy and stenting
in real world practice using a regional quality improvement registry.
J Vasc Surg 2012;56:990-6.
41. Hicks CW, Nejim B, Locham S, Aridi HD, Schermerhorn ML,
Malas MB. Association between Medicare high-risk criteria and
outcomes after carotid revascularization procedures. J Vasc Surg
2018;67:1752-61.e2.
42. Leal I, Orgaz A, Flores Á, Gil J, Rodríguez R, Peinado J, et al.
A diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging-based study of
transcervical carotid stenting with ﬂow reversal versus transfemoral
ﬁlter protection. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:1585-90.
43. Bonati LH, Jongen LM, Haller S, Flach HZ, Dobson J,
Nederkoorn PJ, et al. New ischaemic brain lesions on MRI after
stenting or endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis: a
substudy of the International Carotid Stenting Study (ICSS).
Lancet Neurol 2010;9:353-62.
44. Kwolek CJ, Jaff MR, Leal JI, Hopkins LN, Shah RM, Hanover TM, et al.
Results of the ROADSTER multicenter trial of transcarotid stenting
with dynamic ﬂow reversal. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:1227-34.
45. Malas MB, Leal Lorenzo JI, Nejim B, Hanover TM, Mehta M,
Kashyap V, et al. Analysis of the ROADSTER pivotal and extendedaccess cohorts shows excellent 1-year durability of transcarotid
stenting with dynamic ﬂow reversal. J Vasc Surg 2019;69:1786-96.
46. Kashyap VS, Schneider PA, Foteh M, Motaganahalli R, Shah R,
Eckstein HH, et al. Early outcomes in the ROADSTER 2 study of
transcarotid artery revascularization in patients with signiﬁcant carotid artery disease. Stroke 2020;51:2620-9.

20S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022
47. Schermerhorn ML, Liang P, Eldrup-Jorgensen J, Cronenwett JL,
Nolan BW, Kashyap VS, et al. Association of transcarotid artery
revascularization vs transfemoral carotid artery stenting with stroke
or death among patients with carotid artery stenosis. JAMA
2019;322:2313-22.
48. Malas MB, Dakour-Aridi H, Kashyap VS, Eldrup-Jorgensen J,
Wang GJ, Motaganahalli RL, et al. Transcarotid revascularization
with dynamic ﬂow reversal versus carotid endarterectomy in the
Vascular Quality Initiative surveillance project [e-pub ahead of
print]. Ann Surg, https://doi.org/10.1097/SLA.0000000000004496.
Accessed April 19, 2021.
49. Columbo JA, Martinez-Camblor P, O’Malley AJ, Stone DH,
Kashyap VS, Powell RJ, et al. Association of adoption of transcarotid
artery revascularization with center-level perioperative outcomes.
JAMA Netw Open 2021;4:e2037885.
50. Lal BK, Jordan W, Kashyap VS, Kwolek CJ, Moore WS, Mukherjee D,
et al. Clinical competence statement of the Society for Vascular
Surgery on training and credentialing for transcarotid artery revascularization. J Vasc Surg 2020;72:779-89.
51. Johnston SC, Rothwell PM, Nguyen-Huynh MN, Giles MF, Elkins JS,
Bernstein AL, et al. Validation and reﬁnement of scores to predict
very early stroke risk after transient ischaemic attack. Lancet
2007;369:283-92.
52. Salem MK, Sayers RD, Bown MJ, Eveson DJ, Robinson TG, Naylor AR.
Rapid access carotid endarterectomy can be performed in the
hyperacute period without a signiﬁcant increase in procedural risks.
Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2011;41:222-8.
53. Sbarigia E, Toni D, Speziale F, Acconcia MC, Fiorani P. Early carotid
endarterectomy after ischemic stroke: the results of a prospective
multicenter Italian study. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2006;32:229-35.
54. Naylor AR. Delay may reduce procedural risk, but at what price to
the patient? Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2008;35:383-91.
55. Sharpe R, Sayers RD, London NJ, Bown MJ, McCarthy MJ, Nasim A,
et al. Procedural risk following carotid endarterectomy in the hyperacute period after onset of symptoms. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2013;46:519-24.
56. Loftus IM, Paraskevas KI, Johal A, Waton S, Heikkila K, Naylor AR,
et al. Editor’s choice e delays to surgery and procedural risks
following carotid endarterectomy in the UK National Vascular
Registry. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2016;52:438-43.
57. Rantner B, Schmidauer C, Knoﬂach M, Fraedrich G. Very urgent
carotid endarterectomy does not increase the procedural risk. Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2015;49:129-36.
58. Strömberg S, Gelin J, Osterberg T, Bergström GM, Karlström L,
Osterberg K. Very urgent carotid endarterectomy confers increased
procedural risk. Stroke 2012;43:1331-5.
59. Tanious A, Pothof AB, Boitano LT, Pendleton AA, Wang LJ, de
Borst GJ, et al. Timing of carotid endarterectomy after stroke:
retrospective review of prospectively collected national database.
Ann Surg 2018;268:449-56.
60. Avgerinos ED, Farber A, Abou Ali AN, Rybin D, Doros G, Eslami MH.
Early carotid endarterectomy performed 2 to 5 days after the onset of
neurologic symptoms leads to comparable results to carotid endarterectomy performed at later time points. J Vasc Surg 2017;66:1719-26.
61. Ali M, Stephenson J, Naylor AR. Delay prior to expedited carotid
endarterectomy: a prospective audit of practice. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;46:404-10.
62. Baracchini C, Meneghetti G, Ballotta E. Early carotid endarterectomy in acute stroke. Cerebrovasc Dis 2005;19:417-8.
63. Capoccia L, Sbarigia E, Speziale F, Toni D, Fiorani P. Urgent carotid
endarterectomy to prevent recurrence and improve neurologic
outcome in mild-to-moderate acute neurologic events. J Vasc Surg
2011;53:622-7; discussion: 627-8.
64. Mussa FF, Aaronson N, Lamparello PJ, Maldonado TS, Cayne NS,
Adelman MA, et al. Outcome of carotid endarterectomy for acute
neurological deﬁcit. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2009;43:364-9.
65. Paty PS, Darling RC III, Feustel PJ, Bernardini GL, Mehta M,
Ozsvath KJ, et al. Early carotid endarterectomy after acute stroke.
J Vasc Surg 2004;39:148-54.
66. Rerkasem K, Rothwell PM. Systematic review of the operative risks
of carotid endarterectomy for recently symptomatic stenosis in
relation to the timing of surgery. Stroke 2009;40:e564-72.
67. Rothwell PM, Eliasziw M, Gutnikov SA, Warlow CP, Barnett HJ. Sex
difference in the effect of time from symptoms to surgery on

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

beneﬁt from carotid endarterectomy for transient ischemic attack
and nondisabling stroke. Stroke 2004;35:2855-61.
Qureshi AI, Alexandrov AV, Tegeler CH, Hobson RW II, Dennis Baker J,
Hopkins LN, et al. Guidelines for screening of extracranial carotid
artery disease: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
multidisciplinary practice guidelines committee of the American
Society of Neuroimaging; cosponsored by the Society of Vascular and
Interventional Neurology. J Neuroimaging 2007;17:19-47.
Rockman CB, Hoang H, Guo Y, Maldonado TS, Jacobowitz GR,
Talishinskiy T, et al. The prevalence of carotid artery stenosis varies
signiﬁcantly by race. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:327-37.
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, Krist AH, Davidson KW,
Mangione CM, Barry MJ, Cabana M, et al. Screening for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: US Preventive Services task force
recommendation statement. JAMA 2021;325:476-81.
Gorelick PB, Sacco RL, Smith DB, Alberts M, Mustone-Alexander L,
Rader D, et al. Prevention of a ﬁrst stroke: a review of guidelines and
a multidisciplinary consensus statement from the National Stroke
Association. JAMA 1999;281:1112-20.
Perry JR, Szalai JP, Norris JW. Consensus against both endarterectomy and routine screening for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Canadian Stroke Consortium. Arch Neurol 1997;54:25-8.
Goldstein LB, Adams R, Alberts MJ, Appel LJ, Brass LM, Bushnell CD,
et al. Primary prevention of ischemic stroke: a guideline from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association Stroke
Council: cosponsored by the Atherosclerotic Peripheral Vascular
Disease Interdisciplinary Working Group; Cardiovascular Nursing
Council; Clinical Cardiology Council; Nutrition, Physical Activity, and
Metabolism Council; and the Quality of Care and Outcomes
Research Interdisciplinary Working Group: the American Academy of
Neurology afﬁrms the value of this guideline. Stroke 2006;37:1583-633.
Bates ER, Babb JD, Casey DE Jr, Cates CU, Duckwiler GR,
Feldman TE, et al. ACCF/SCAI/SVMB/SIR/ASITN 2007 clinical expert
consensus document on carotid stenting. Vasc Med 2007;12:35-83.
Naylor AR. Cerebrovascular diseases. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, editors. Rutherford’s Textbook of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular
Therapy. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018. p. 1149-65.
Jacobowitz GR, Rockman CB, Gagne PJ, Adelman MA,
Lamparello PJ, Landis R, et al. A model for predicting occult carotid
artery stenosis: screening is justiﬁed in a selected population. J Vasc
Surg 2003;38:705-9.
Rockman CB, Jacobowitz GR, Gagne PJ, Adelman MA,
Lamparello PJ, Landis R, et al. Focused screening for occult carotid
artery disease: patients with known heart disease are at high risk.
J Vasc Surg 2004;39:44-51.
Qureshi AI, Janardhan V, Bennett SE, Luft AR, Hopkins LN,
Guterman LR. Who should be screened for asymptomatic carotid
artery stenosis? Experience from the Western New York Stroke
Screening Program. J Neuroimaging 2001;11:105-11.
Ricotta JJ, Aburahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P, Lal BK.
Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines for management
of extracranial carotid disease: executive summary. J Vasc Surg
2011;54:832-6.
Mackaay AJ, Beks PJ, Dur AH, Bischoff M, Scholma J, Heine RJ, et al.
The distribution of peripheral vascular disease in a Dutch Caucasian
population: comparison of type II diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1995;9:170-5.
Lin R, Hingorani A, Marks N, Ascher E, Jimenez R, Aboian E, et al.
Screening for carotid artery stenosis and renal artery stenosis in
patients undergoing tunneled cuffed hemodialysis catheter
placement. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2012;46:364-8.
Kaul S, Alladi S, Mridula KR, Bandaru VC, Umamashesh M,
Anjanikumar D, et al. Prevalence and risk factors of asymptomatic
carotid artery stenosis in Indian population: an 8-year follow-up
study. Neurol India 2017;65:279-85.
Bishara RA, Taha W, Alfarouk MO, Milik IA, Wilson N. Screening for
signiﬁcant carotid artery disease among a cohort of 1,000 Egyptian
patients. Vascular 2008;16:35-40.
Berens ES, Kouchoukos NT, Murphy SF, Wareing TH. Preoperative
carotid artery screening in elderly patients undergoing cardiac
surgery. J Vasc Surg 1992;15:313-21; discussion: 322-3.
Lin JC, Kabbani LS, Peterson EL, Masabni K, Morgan JA, Brooks S,
et al. Clinical utility of carotid duplex ultrasound prior to cardiac
surgery. J Vasc Surg 2016;63:710-4.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

21S

Volume 75, Number 1S
86. Marek J, Mills JL, Harvich J, Cui H, Fujitani RM. Utility of routine carotid duplex screening in patients who have claudication. J Vasc
Surg 1996;24:572-7; discussion: 577-9.
87. Ramos MJ, Gonzalez-Fajardo JA, Vaquero-Puerta C, VallinaVictorero M, Vicente-Santiago M, Vaquero-Lorenzo F, et al.
Asymptomatic carotid stenosis in patients with intermittent
claudication: epidemiological study. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino)
2011;52:761-8.
88. Cheng SW, Wu LL, Lau H, Ting AC, Wong J. Prevalence of signiﬁcant
carotid stenosis in Chinese patients with peripheral and coronary
artery disease. Aust N Z J Surg 1999;69:44-7.
89. Fowl RJ, Marsch JG, Love M, Patterson RB, Shukla R,
Kempczinski RF. Prevalence of hemodynamically signiﬁcant stenosis of the carotid artery in an asymptomatic veteran population.
Surg Gynecol Obstet 1991;172:13-6.
90. Gentile AT, Taylor LM Jr, Moneta GL, Porter JM. Prevalence of
asymptomatic carotid stenosis in patients undergoing infrainguinal
bypass surgery. Arch Surg 1995;130:900-4.
91. House AK, Bell R, House J, Mastaglia F, Kumar A, D’Antuono M.
Asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis associated with peripheral
vascular disease: a prospective study. Cardiovasc Surg 1999;7:44-9.
92. Klop RB, Eikelboom BC, Taks AC. Screening of the internal carotid
arteries in patients with peripheral vascular disease by colour-ﬂow
duplex scanning. Eur J Vasc Surg 1991;5:41-5.
93. Miralles M, Corominas A, Cotillas J, Castro F, Clara A, VidalBarraquer F. Screening for carotid and renal artery stenoses in patients with aortoiliac disease. Ann Vasc Surg 1998;12:17-22.
94. Pilcher JM, Danaher J, Khaw KT. The prevalence of asymptomatic
carotid artery disease in patients with peripheral vascular disease.
Clin Radiol 2000;55:56-61.
95. Valentine RJ, Hagino RT, Boyd PI, Kakish HB, Clagett GP. Utility of
carotid duplex in young adults with lower extremity atherosclerosis:
how aggressive should we be in screening young patients? Cardiovasc Surg 1997;5:408-13.
96. Yamamoto K, Miyata T, Nagayoshi M, Akagi D, Hosaka A, Miyahara T,
et al. Carotid endarterectomy may reduce the high stroke rate for
patients with the disease of abdominal aorta and peripheral arteries. Int Angiol 2006;25:35-9.
97. Yun WS, Rho YN, Park UJ, Lee KB, Kim DI, Kim YW. Prevalence of
asymptomatic critical carotid artery stenosis in Korean patients
with chronic atherosclerotic lower extremity ischemia: is a
screening carotid duplex ultrasonography worthwhile? J Korean
Med Sci 2010;25:1167-70.
98. Narayan P, Khan MW, Das D, Guha Biswas R, Das M, Rupert E. Carotid artery screening at the time of coronary artery bypassddoes it
inﬂuence neurological outcomes? Int J Cardiol 2017;243:140-4.
99. Wanamaker KM, Moraca RJ, Nitzberg D, Magovern GJ Jr. Contemporary incidence and risk factors for carotid artery disease in patients referred for coronary artery bypass surgery. J Cardiothorac
Surg 2012;7:78.
100. Anastasiadis K, Karamitsos TD, Velissaris I, Makrygiannakis K,
Kiskinis D. Preoperative screening and management of carotid artery disease in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Perfusion
2009;24:257-62.
101. Ascher E, Hingorani A, Yorkovich W, Ramsey PJ, Salles-Cunha S.
Routine preoperative carotid duplex scanning in patients undergoing
open heart surgery: is it worthwhile? Ann Vasc Surg 2001;15:669-78.
102. Cheng Y, Gao J, Wang J, Wang S, Peng J. Risk factors for carotid
artery stenosis in Chinese patients undergoing coronary artery
bypass graft interventions. Medicine (Baltimore) 2015;94:e1119.
103. Chun LJ, Tsai J, Tam M, Prema J, Chen LH, Patel KK. Screening carotid artery duplex in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Ann
Vasc Surg 2014;28:1178-85.
104. Cornily JC, Le Saux D, Vinsonneau U, Bezon E, Le Ven F, Le Gal G,
et al. Assessment of carotid artery stenosis before coronary artery
bypass surgery: is it always necessary? Arch Cardiovasc Dis 2011;104:
77-83.
105. Dharmasaroja PA, Piyayotai D, Hutayanon P, Buakhamsri A,
Intharakham K. Extracranial carotid stenosis and peripheral arterial
disease in Thai patients with coronary artery disease. Angiology
2010;61:329-32.
 R.
106. Drohomirecka A, Ko1towski L, Kwinecki P, Wronecki K, Cichon
Risk factors for carotid artery disease in patients scheduled for
coronary artery bypass grafting. Kardiol Pol 2010;68:789-94.

107. Kawarada O, Yokoi Y, Morioka N, Nakata S, Higashiue S, Mori T, et al.
Carotid stenosis and peripheral artery disease in Japanese patients
with coronary artery disease undergoing coronary artery bypass
grafting. Circ J 2003;67:1003-6.
108. Fassiadis N, Adams K, Zayed H, Goss D, Deane C, Maccarthy P, et al.
Occult carotid artery disease in patients who have undergone
coronary angioplasty. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg 2008;7:
855-7.
109. Pickett CA, Jackson JL, Hemann BA, Atwood JE. Carotid bruits and
cerebrovascular disease risk: a meta-analysis. Stroke 2010;41:
2295-302.
110. Ratchford EV, Jin Z, Di Tullio MR, Salameh MJ, Homma S, Gan R,
et al. Carotid bruit for detection of hemodynamically signiﬁcant
carotid stenosis: the Northern Manhattan study. Neurol Res 2009;31:
748-52.
111. Johansson EP, Wester P. Carotid bruits as predictor for carotid stenoses detected by ultrasonography: an observational study. BMC
Neurol 2008;8:23.
112. Xu J, Cao Y. Radiation-induced carotid artery stenosis: a comprehensive review of the literature. Interv Neurol 2014;2:183-92.
113. Steele SR, Martin MJ, Mullenix PS, Crawford JV, Cuadrado DS,
Andersen CA. Focused high-risk population screening for carotid
arterial stenosis after radiation therapy for head and neck cancer.
Am J Surg 2004;187:594-8.
114. Carmody BJ, Arora S, Avena R, Curry KM, Simpkins J, Cosby K, et al.
Accelerated carotid artery disease after high-dose head and neck
radiotherapy: is there a role for routine carotid duplex surveillance?
J Vasc Surg 1999;30:1045-51.
115. Kurvers HA, van der Graaf Y, Blankensteijn JD, Visseren FL,
Eikelboom B. Screening for asymptomatic internal carotid artery
stenosis and aneurysm of the abdominal aorta: comparing the yield
between patients with manifest atherosclerosis and patients with
risk factors for atherosclerosis only. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:1226-33.
116. Vranes M, Davidovic L, Vasic D, Radmili O. Coexistence of internal
carotid artery stenosis in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Korean Circ J 2013;43:550-6.
117. Gray C, Goodman P, Cullen P, Badger SA, O’Malley K,
O’Donohoe MK, et al. Screening for peripheral arterial disease and
carotid artery disease in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Angiology 2016;67:346-9.
118. Berger JS, Hochman J, Lobach I, Adelman MA, Riles TS,
Rockman CB. Modiﬁable risk factor burden and the prevalence of
peripheral artery disease in different vascular territories. J Vasc Surg
2013;58:673-81.e1.
119. Razzouk L, Rockman CB, Patel MR, Guo Y, Adelman MA, Riles TS,
et al. Co-existence of vascular disease in different arterial beds:
peripheral artery disease and carotid artery stenosisddata from Life
Line Screening(Ò). Atherosclerosis 2015;241:687-91.
120. Kakkos SK, Sabetai M, Tegos T, Stevens J, Thomas D, Grifﬁn M, et al.
Silent embolic infarcts on computed tomography brain scans and
risk of ipsilateral hemispheric events in patients with asymptomatic
internal carotid artery stenosis. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:902-9.
121. Paraskevas KI, Veith FJ, Spence JD. How to identify which
patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis could beneﬁt
from endarterectomy or stenting. Stroke Vasc Neurol 2018;3:
92-100.
122. Nicolaides AN, Kakkos SK, Grifﬁn M, Sabetai M, Dhanjil S,
Thomas DJ, et al. Effect of image normalization on carotid plaque
classiﬁcation and the risk of ipsilateral hemispheric ischemic events:
results from the asymptomatic carotid stenosis and risk of stroke
study. Vascular 2005;13:211-21.
123. Wardlaw JM, Chappell FM, Stevenson M, De Nigris E, Thomas S,
Gillard J, et al. Accurate, practical and cost-effective assessment of
carotid stenosis in the UK. Health Technol Assess 2006;10. iii-iv, ix-x,
1-182.
124. Loftus IM, McCarthy MJ, Pau H, Hartshorne T, Bell PR, London NJ, et al.
Carotid endarterectomy without angiography does not compromise
operative outcome. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1998;16:489-93.
125. AbuRahma AF, Srivastava M, Stone PA, Mousa AY, Jain A, Dean LS,
et al. Critical appraisal of the carotid duplex consensus criteria in
the diagnosis of carotid artery stenosis. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:53-9;
discussion: 59-0.
126. Grant EG, Benson CB, Moneta GL, Alexandrov AV, Baker JD, Bluth EI,
et al. Carotid artery stenosis: grayscale and Doppler ultrasound

22S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

134.

diagnosisdSociety of Radiologists in ultrasound consensus conference. Ultrasound Q 2003;19:190-8.
Altaf N, Daniels L, Morgan PS, Auer D, MacSweeney ST, Moody AR,
et al. Detection of intraplaque hemorrhage by magnetic resonance
imaging in symptomatic patients with mild to moderate carotid
stenosis predicts recurrent neurological events. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:
337-42.
D’Agostino RS, Svensson LG, Neumann DJ, Balkhy HH,
Williamson WA, Shahian DM. Screening carotid ultrasonography
and risk factors for stroke in coronary artery surgery patients. Ann
Thorac Surg 1996;62:1714-23.
Naylor AR, Cuffe RL, Rothwell PM, Bell PR. A systematic review of
outcomes following staged and synchronous carotid endarterectomy and coronary artery bypass. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2003;25:
380-9.
Naylor AR, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM, Bell PR. Carotid artery disease
and stroke during coronary artery bypass: a critical review of the
literature. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;23:283-94.
Naylor R, Cuffe RL, Rothwell PM, Loftus IM, Bell PR. A systematic
review of outcome following synchronous carotid endarterectomy
and coronary artery bypass: inﬂuence of surgical and patient variables. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2003;26:230-41.
Paraskevas KI, Nduwayo S, Saratzis AN, Naylor AR. Carotid stenting
prior to coronary bypass surgery: an updated systematic review and
meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2017;53:309-19.
Timaran CH, Rosero EB, Smith ST, Valentine RJ, Modrall JG,
Clagett GP. Trends and outcomes of concurrent carotid revascularization and coronary bypass. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:355-60; discussion: 360-1.
Newman DC, Hicks RG, Horton DA. Coexistent carotid and coronary
arterial disease: outcome in 50 cases and method of management.
J Cardiovasc Surg 1987;28:599-606.

135. Naylor AR, Bown MJ. Stroke after cardiac surgery and its association
with asymptomatic carotid disease: an updated systematic review
and meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2011;41:607-24.
136. Venkatachalam S, Shishehbor MH. Management of carotid
disease in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery:
is it time to change our approach? Curr Opin Cardiol 2011;26:
480-7.
137. Illuminati G, Ricco JB, Calio F, Pacile MA, Miraldi F, Frati G, et al.
Short-term results of a randomized trial examining timing of carotid endarterectomy in patients with severe asymptomatic unilateral carotid stenosis undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
J Vasc Surg 2011;54:993-9; discussion: 998-9.
138. Weimar C, Bilbilis K, Rekowski J, Holst T, Beyersdorf F, Breuer M,
et al. Safety of simultaneous coronary artery bypass grafting and
carotid endarterectomy versus isolated coronary artery bypass
grafting: a randomized clinical trial. Stroke 2017;48:2769-75.
139. Naylor AR, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM. A systematic review and
meta-analysis of 30-day outcomes following staged carotid artery stenting and coronary bypass. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2009;37:379-87.
140. Shishehbor MH, Venkatachalam S, Sun Z, Rajeswaran J, Kapadia SR,
Bajzer C, et al. A direct comparison of early and late outcomes with
three approaches to carotid revascularization and open heart surgery. J Am Coll Cardiol 2013;62:1948-56.
141. Van der Heyden J, Suttorp MJ, Bal ET, Ernst JM, Ackerstaff RG,
Schaap J, et al. Staged carotid angioplasty and stenting followed by cardiac surgery in patients with severe asymptomatic
carotid artery stenosis: early and long-term results. Circulation
2007;116:2036-42.

Submitted Apr 19, 2021; accepted Apr 20, 2021.

