SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERYÒ DOCUMENT
Compression therapy after invasive treatment of
superﬁcial veins of the lower extremities: Clinical
practice guidelines of the American Venous Forum,
Society for Vascular Surgery, American College of
Phlebology, Society for Vascular Medicine, and
International Union of Phlebology
Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD,a,b Brajesh K. Lal, MD,c Pier Luigi Antignani, MD,d John Blebea, MD, MBA,e
Ruth Bush, MD, JD, MPH,f Joseph Caprini, MD,g Alun Davies, MD,h Mark Forrestal, MD,i
Glenn Jacobowitz, MD,j Evi Kalodiki, MD,k Lois Killewich, MD,l Joann Lohr, MD,m Harry Ma, MD,n
Giovanni Mosti, MD,o Hugo Partsch, MD,p Thom Rooke, MD,q and Thomas Wakeﬁeld, MD,b Toledo and
Cincinnati, Ohio; Ann Arbor and Saginaw, Mich; Baltimore, Md; Rome and Lucca, Italy; Houston and Galveston, Tex;
Chicago and Arlington Heights, Ill; London, United Kingdom; New York, NY; New London, Conn; Vienna, Austria; and
Rochester Minn

SUMMARY
Guideline 1.1: Compression after thermal ablation or stripping of the saphenous veins.
When possible, we suggest compression (elastic stockings or wraps) should be used after surgical or thermal
procedures to eliminate varicose veins. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 1.2: Dose of compression after thermal ablation or stripping of the varicose veins.
If compression dressings are to be used postprocedurally in patients undergoing ablation or surgical procedures on
the saphenous veins, those providing pressures >20 mm Hg together with eccentric pads placed directly over the vein
ablated or operated on provide the greatest reduction in postoperative pain. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 2.1: Duration of compression therapy after thermal ablation or stripping of the saphenous veins.
In the absence of convincing evidence, we recommend best clinical judgment to determine the duration of
compression therapy after treatment. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 3.1: Compression therapy after sclerotherapy.
We suggest compression therapy immediately after treatment of superﬁcial veins with sclerotherapy to improve
outcomes of sclerotherapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.2: Duration of compression therapy after sclerotherapy.
In the absence of convincing evidence, we recommend best clinical judgment to determine the duration of
compression therapy after sclerotherapy. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 4.1: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment in patients with a venous leg ulcer.
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer, we recommend compression therapy over no compression therapy to increase
venous leg ulcer healing rate and to decrease the risk of ulcer recurrence. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.2: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment in patients with a mixed arterial and venous leg ulcer.
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer and underlying arterial disease, we suggest limiting the use of compression to
patients with ankle-brachial index exceeding 0.5 or if absolute ankle pressure is >60 mm Hg. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C] (J Vasc Surg: Venous and Lym Dis 2019;7:17-28.)

From the Jobst Vascular Institute of Promedica, Toledoa; the University of

Author conﬂict of interest: none.

Michigan, Ann Arborb; the University of Maryland School of Medicine and

Correspondence: Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD, ProMedica, Jobst Vascular Institute,

Baltimore VA Medical Center, Baltimorec; the Vascular Centre, Nuova Villa

2109 Hughes Dr, Ste 400, Toledo, OH 43606 (e-mail: fedor.lurie@promedica.

Claudia, Romed; the Central Michigan University, College of Medicine, Sagi-

org).

nawe; the University of Houston College of Medicine, Houstonf; the North-

Independent peer-review and oversight has been provided by members of the

shore University Healthcare System, Chicagog; the Imperial College School

SVS Document Oversight Committee: Thomas L. Forbes, MD (Chair), Ali

of Medicine, Londonh; the NCH Medical Group, Arlington Heightsi; the New

AbuRahma, MD, Kwame Anankwah, MD, Neal Barshes, MD, Ronald L. Dal-

York University, School of Medicine, New Yorkj; the Imperial College London,

man, MD, Hans Henning Eckstein, MD, Anil Hingorani, MD, Eva Rzucidlo,

Londonk; The University of Texas Medical Branch, Galvestonl; the Lohr Surgical
Specialists, Cincinnatim; The Vascular Experts, New Londonn; the Clinica MD

MD, Marc Schermerhorn, MD.
2213-333X

Barantini, Luccao; the Medical University of Vienna, Viennap; and the Mayo

Copyright Ó 2018 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.

Clinic, Rochester.q

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvsv.2018.10.002

17

18

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

RATIONALE FOR GUIDELINES
The current practice of using compression therapy after
invasive treatment of superﬁcial veins is based on the
clinical experience of generations of practitioners who
used this modality after surgical stripping of saphenous
veins, stab phlebectomies, and sclerotherapy. In the
case of sclerotherapy, such practice is based on experimental evidence.1 For other modalities, especially for
thermal ablation of saphenous veins, the evidence has
not been organized into a uniﬁed set of recommendations, making current clinical practice highly variable.
The Guidelines Committee of the American Venous
Forum (AVF) tasked this writing group to review available
evidence and to recommend practice guidelines.

METHODOLOGY
Previously described methodology used by the AVF
and Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) Joint Clinical
Practice Guidelines Committee was used.2

The Compression Guidelines writing group was
appointed by the AVF Guidelines Committee. Representatives from the SVS, Society of Vascular Medicine,
American College of Phlebology, and International Union
of Phlebology were invited and included in the writing
group. The literature search (MEDLINE, Embase,
Cochrane Library, Scopus, Google Scholar, Ovid) included
the terms “lower extremity veins,” “compression stockings,” “compression bandages,” “compression,” “compression therapy,” “sclerotherapy,” “vein surgery,” “high
ligation,” “stripping,” “stab phlebectomies,” and “vein ablation.” The entire list was reviewed by the group, and publications that were found to be relevant were selected for
preliminary review. This preliminary list was circulated
among the writing group members with relevant
expertise to identify any further relevant peer-reviewed
publications. Each publication included in the ﬁnal list
was reviewed and graded independently by three
writing group members.

Table. Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) recommendations based on
level of evidence
Grade

Description of
recommendation

Beneﬁt vs risk

Methodologic quality of
supporting evidence

Implications
Strong recommendation,
can apply to most patients
in most circumstances
without reservation

1A

Strong recommendation,
high-quality evidence

Beneﬁts clearly outweigh
risk and burdens, or vice
versa

RCTs without important
limitations or
overwhelming evidence
from observational studies

1B

Strong recommendation,
moderate quality
evidence

Beneﬁts clearly outweigh
risk and burdens, or vice
versa

Strong recommendation,
RCTs with important
can apply to most patients
limitations (inconsistent
in most circumstances
results, methodologic
without reservation
ﬂaws, indirect, or
imprecise) or exceptionally
strong evidence from
observational studies

1C

Strong recommendation,
low-quality or very
low-quality evidence

Beneﬁts clearly outweigh
risk and burdens, or vice
versa

Observational studies
or case series

2A

Weak recommendation,
high-quality evidence

Beneﬁts closely balanced
with risks and burdens

RCTs without important
Weak recommendation,
limitations or overwhelming
best action may differ
evidence from observational
depending on
studies
circumstances or patients’
or societal values

2B

Weak recommendation,
moderate-quality
evidence

Beneﬁts closely balanced
with risks and burdens

Weak recommendation,
RCTs with important
best action may differ
limitations (inconsistent
depending on
results, methodologic
circumstances or patients’
ﬂaws, indirect, or
or societal values
imprecise) or exceptionally
strong evidence from
observational studies

2C

Weak recommendation,
low-quality or very
low-quality evidence

Uncertainty in the estimates
of beneﬁts and risk, and
burdens; risk, beneﬁt, and
burdens may be closely
balanced

Observational studies
or case series

Strong recommendation
but may change when
higher quality evidence
becomes available

Very weak recommendations;
other alternatives may be
reasonable

RCTs, Randomized controlled trials.
Adapted from Guyatt G, Gutterman D, Baumann MH, Addrizzo-Harris D, Hylek EM, Phillips B, et al. Grading strength of recommendations and quality
of evidence in clinical guidelines: report from an American College of Chest Physicians task force. Chest 2006;129:174-81.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

19

Volume 7, Number 1

The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system (Table) was
used throughout the entire process of review and synthesis.2,3 The quality of evidence was rated high when
additional research was considered very unlikely to
change conﬁdence in the estimate of effect; moderate
when further research was likely to have an important
impact on the estimate of effect; or low when further
research was very likely to change the estimate of the
effect. When the beneﬁts of an intervention outweighed
its risks, a strong recommendation was noted. However,
if beneﬁts and risks were less certain, either because of
low-quality evidence or because high-quality evidence
suggested that beneﬁts and risks were closely balanced,
a weak recommendation was recorded. Guideline developers used the terms “we recommend” to denote strong
recommendations, whereas for weak recommendations,
they used the less deﬁnitive wording “we suggest.”
Following the methodology of previous AVF Guidelines,
when evidence was lacking or there were no comparable
alternatives to a recommendation, the recommendation
was labeled [BEST PRACTICE]. These grades were
reviewed and approved by the entire writing group and
served as the basis for grading of the recommendations.
The entire Guidelines Committee has reviewed and
approved the ﬁnal document.

The main advantage of this type of bandage is that it
provides even higher sub-bandage pressures in the
upright body position and when the patient is walking,
whereas the pressure is tolerably low during rest.7 The
effects of the intermittent pressure peaks during
walking are comparable to those of intermittent
pneumatic compression pumps, for which there is
more evidence concerning hemodynamic efﬁcacy published than for bandages.5 The main disadvantage of
such bandages is that there is a risk of applying them
too loosely or that the pressure starts to drop immediately after application because of edema removal, after
which the bandage falls loose.
Compression stockings are the most popular form of
compression devices. To facilitate self-donning by the
patient over the heels, they must be adequately elastic.
Their main disadvantage is that they produce less pressure increases compared with compression bandages
when standing up and when walking.7 They are therefore less effective with respect to their hemodynamic
effects. However, compression stockings have been
shown to be effective in reducing edema and pain vs
no stockings8,9 and seem to have anti-inﬂammatory
properties.10

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR COMPRESSION
THERAPY

A major goal of compression after procedures on superﬁcial veins is to maintain occlusion of the treated vein to
prevent bruising and recanalization, as shown in an
animal model.11 To achieve this goal, the external pressure should exceed the intravenous pressure. The intravenous pressure depends mainly on the body position,
corresponding to the height of the blood column between the point of measurement and the right side of
the heart. The pressure in leg veins is very low when
patients are lying horizontal. In this position, magnetic
resonance imaging has conﬁrmed that a compression
pressure of <10 mm Hg can narrow the great saphenous
vein (GSV).
Much higher pressures are needed to narrow veins of
the lower extremity when patients are in the sitting or
standing position. Observations using duplex ultrasound
and magnetic resonance imaging conﬁrm that in the
standing position, a compression pressure of >50 mm
Hg on the lower leg and of >30 to 40 mm Hg at thigh
level is required to occlude a vein. Using inelastic
compression material applied by expert hands, such
pressures are well tolerated and effective. This is the
most likely reason that recent studies comparing
different compression devices have recommended starting with compression bandages during the initial few
days after the procedure, with the goal of compressing
the recently treated veins. A limitation of these reports
is that the pressure of effective compression in these recommendations has not been reported.

Presently, ﬁve categories of compression therapy of the
extremities are available: compression bandages,
compression stockings, self-adjustable Velcro devices,
compression pumps, and hybrid devices. Compression
bandages and compression stockings are most
commonly used for short-term application after varicose
vein interventions.
Compression bandages are available in a wide spectrum of materials and weaves with different elastic
properties.4 Training for proper application is essential.4
To make bandaging easier, safer, and more effective,
most modern bandages combine different material
components. Because of friction between these components and the use of adhesive surfaces, multicomponent bandages provide nonyielding cuffs of high
stiffness around the leg, even when their individual
components are elastic. This stiffness of elastic textiles
results in an increase of sub-bandage pressure when patients stand up or when they walk.5 Examples are
“multilayer bandages” like Profore (Smith & Nephew,
Memphis, Tenn), Comprifore (Jobst, Charlotte, NC), and
Coban 2 (3M, St. Paul, Minn) as a “two-layer” version. In
fact, every bandage is composed of more than one layer
and therefore the term multilayer bandage is
misleading. Such multicomponent bandages should
be applied with a pressure of approximately 50 mm
Hg on the lower leg and >30 mm Hg on the thigh.6

DOSE OF COMPRESSION AND COMPRESSION
PROFILE

20

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

By using specially formed pads, such pressures can be
achieved locally over the treated vein, even when using
compression stockings. This is due to the artiﬁcial reduction of the local leg radius (law of Laplace). The compression could be eccentric,12,13 eccentric and concentric,14 or
tangential.15,16
The concept that compression needs to be graduated,
providing a pressure decrease from distal to proximal,
seems to be less important after vein procedures in mobile patients. Even a foot-sparing compression bandage
may be considered, which promotes ankle mobility
and walking, preventing edema in the noncompressed
parts.17

COMPLIANCE
One major problem with compression therapy is poor
adherence by the patient, especially when long-term
management is planned.18 The main complaints reported by patients are difﬁculties during the process of
donning (pulling up) and dofﬁng (removing) compression stockings, problems with slipping of ﬁxed bandages
down the leg, and concerns with hygiene because these
must be worn for prolonged periods. The pain relief and
other beneﬁts experienced by patients when the devices
accomplish proper compression is the best argument for
improved compliance.

1. COMPRESSION VS NO COMPRESSION AFTER
THERMAL ABLATION OR STRIPPING OF THE
SAPHENOUS VEINS
Guideline 1.1: Compression after thermal ablation or
stripping of the saphenous veins.
When possible, compression (elastic stockings or wraps)
should be used after surgical or thermal procedures to
eliminate varicose veins. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 1.2: Dose of compression after thermal ablation or
stripping of the saphenous veins.
If compression dressings are to be used postprocedurally in
patients undergoing ablation or surgical procedures on
the saphenous veins, those providing pressures >20 mm
Hg together with eccentric pads placed directly over the
vein ablated or operated on provide the greatest
reduction in postoperative pain. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - B]

A total of 13 relevant publications were identiﬁed,12,13,19-29
of which 1 was a systematic review19 and 2 were guidelines
produced by other groups.20,21 The remaining 10 manuscripts included 9 randomized controlled trials
(RCTs)12,13,22-27,29 and one case-control study.28
Neither the RCTs12,13,22-27,29 nor the case-control
study28 included a group of patients that did not
receive compression therapy. Most practitioners
routinely recommend compression therapy after surgical or thermal ablation of varicose veins, with the tacit
assumption that patients will derive beneﬁt from

compression. In the published studies, investigators
did not test whether compression was beneﬁcial and
only tested different levels of compression that should
be maintained after a procedure. Similar ﬁndings are
evident in the two previously published guidelines.
The guidelines of the European Society for Vascular
Surgery20 made the following recommendation: “Postprocedural compression is recommended after superﬁcial venous surgery, endovenous truncal ablation, and
sclerotherapy [Class I, Level A].” The National Institute
for Health and Care Excellence guidelines21 stated: “As
there was no convincing evidence for using or not using
compression therapy the GDG [Guideline Development
Group] felt they could not make a recommendation
not to use stockings at all post intervention and the
consensus was that in their clinical experience some
people post-surgery did feel beneﬁt from wearing
stockings. However, the GDG, taking into account the
cost of compression therapy, felt they could not recommend its long term use.” Their recommendation was,
“If offering compression bandaging or hosiery for use
after interventional treatment, do not use for more
than 7 days.”21
Based on these ﬁndings, any extrapolation of the available data in an attempt to answer the primary question
must be considered speculative. However, it would also
be imprudent to recommend against the use of
compression after saphenous ablation or stripping.
Taking the evidence as a whole, one might conclude
that some compression is better than none. The recommendation of this committee is as follows: When
possible, compression (elastic stockings or wraps) should
be used after surgical or thermal procedures to eliminate
varicose veins. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Five studies addressed the dosage and modality of
compression after saphenous vein ligation/stripping or
thermal ablation.12,13,23,25,28 Four of these, representing a
total of 237 patients, compared outcomes associated
with different compression modalities and doses after
various types of saphenous vein surgery.13,23,25,28 The ﬁfth
study compared outcomes using different compression
modalities after endovenous ablation in 200 patients.12
Four were randomized trials,12,13,23,25 whereas one was a
case-control study.28 In one of the randomized trials,
the authors clearly stated that treatment was blinded25;
in the others, this was not speciﬁed.
Compression was achieved using a variety of stockings
of different strengths, wraps, and “eccentric” foam pads
or “bulk dressings,” placed directly over the treated
saphenous vein sites. The compression pressures of the
different modalities were reported in three studies,13,25,28
partially reported in one,12 and not reported in another.23
Compression pressures ranged from a low of 18 mm Hg
with a single stocking to a high of almost 100 mm Hg
with a combination of two stockings and an eccentric
pad in the standing position.13 Outcomes reported

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

21

Volume 7, Number 1

included postoperative pain at the end of 7 days, edema,
complications (hematoma, bleeding through the dressings, skin irritation, phlebitis, and deep venous thrombosis [DVT]), and quality of life. Pain was assessed in all
ﬁve studies, various combinations of complications in
three,13,25,28 and quality of life in one.28
The most consistent ﬁnding from these studies was
that patients treated with higher levels of compression
reported much less pain at 7 days compared with those
treated with lower levels of compression. This was
observed in four of the ﬁve studies.12,13,25,28 In one
single-center study,25 88 patients undergoing a variety
of stripping procedures were randomized to low
(18-21 mm Hg) vs moderate (23-32 mm Hg) compression
therapy, applied daily (8 hours/d) for 6 weeks. Follow-up
was obtained at 1 week and 6 weeks. This included a
questionnaire (nonstandard), clinical examination, ultrasound assessment of edema, and duplex ultrasound
evaluation for phlebitis. At 1 week, there was less pain,
tightness, discomfort, and edema in the moderate
compression group compared with the low compression
group. At 6 weeks, there were no longer any differences
in tightness, discomfort, or edema, although a reduction
in pain was still present. The authors concluded that
more compression was better than less, particularly
during the early (1-week) postoperative period.
Two studies evaluated the beneﬁts of stockings
together with thigh pads placed “eccentrically” over the
site of the saphenous vein in patients undergoing
ligation and stripping.13,28 In a case-control study
performed in three European centers, 36 patients were
treated with two compression stockings with a thigh
pad and 17 with two stockings alone. By postoperative
day 3, there was signiﬁcantly reduced pain measured
by a visual analogue scale (VAS) in the group receiving
both the stockings and the pad compared with the
group receiving only the stockings (31 vs 19; P ¼ .05).
The physical domain score of the 12-Item Short Form
Health Survey quality of life questionnaire also demonstrated better results in the stockings and pad group,
whereas overall pain was reduced by 49% compared
with stockings alone. There were no differences in
adverse events. In the second study investigating the
use of eccentric pads after saphenous stripping procedures, 54 patients were randomized to three different
groups: group 1, compression stockings only (23-32 mm
Hg at ankle); group 2, adhesive bandages (Porelast and
Panelast; L&R, Rengsdorf, Germany); and group 3,
compression stockings and an eccentric pad on the
thigh GSV site. All devices were worn for 7 days. Outcomes included pressures achieved (supine and standing, day 1 and day 7), major adverse events at day 7
(VAS pain score >6, extensive hematoma, bleeding
through bandage, superﬁcial venous thrombosis, or
DVT), minor adverse events by day 7 (VAS score 3-5,
discomfort, skin irritation, clot in stripping canal), and

duplex ultrasound at day 7. Higher pressures were
obtained in group 2 vs group 1 and in group 3 vs groups
1 and 2. There were more major adverse events in group 1
and more minor events (skin irritation) in group 3. No
superﬁcial venous thrombosis or DVT occurred in any
patient. The authors concluded that higher pressures
were better, although the pad had to be taped in place
and caused more skin irritation.13
In a single-center study of patients undergoing endovenous laser ablation of the saphenous vein, 200 subjects
were randomized to stockings alone (35 mm Hg) vs
stockings plus “eccentric” compression focused over the
ablated vein (cotton wool bulk under the stocking to
provide additional localized compression directly over
the ablated vein). Patients were assessed at 7 days for
their level of pain using a VAS pain score (0, no pain;
10, maximum pain). The results demonstrate a highly
signiﬁcant reduction in pain at 7 days in patients treated
with additional bulk (pain score of 1.4 with bulk plus
stocking vs 4.9 with stocking alone). The authors
concluded that additional focused eccentric compression directly over the treated vein greatly reduces postablation pain at 7 days.12
In the ﬁfth study, Bond et al23 investigated the effects of
three different compression stockings (TED [Cardinal
Health, Waukegan, Ill], Medi-Tech [Danbury, Conn],
Panelast) on postoperative pain in 48 patients undergoing ligation and stripping of the GSV. In each patient,
each leg was randomized to one of the three types of
stockings. There were no signiﬁcant differences in pain
scores at 1 week after the procedure, measured using a
numerical scale, among any of the stockings applied.
The overall quality of published studies is inadequate
because of small sample size, lack of blinding, lack of
randomization, lack of data addressing compression
strengths, and inconsistent outcomes. However, taken
together, they suggest that postoperative pain in the ﬁrst
7 days after saphenous surgery or thermal ablation can
be reduced with the use of higher compression modalities and eccentric compression.

2. SHORT-TERM COMPRESSION (<2 WEEKS) VS
LONGER TERM COMPRESSION AFTER THERMAL
ABLATION
Guideline 2.1: Duration of compression therapy after
thermal ablation or stripping of the saphenous veins.
In the absence of convincing evidence, we recommend best
clinical judgment to determine the duration of
compression therapy after treatment. [BEST PRACTICE]

A total of eight relevant publications were identiﬁed21,22,25-27,30-32; one was a guideline,21 four were
RCTs,22,25-27 and three were nonrandomized observational studies.30-35 None of the included studies was sufﬁciently powered or appropriately designed to deﬁnitively

22

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

address the question of optimal duration of compression
therapy. Included studies were heterogeneous in regard
to timing for measured outcomes, modality of vein
ablation, and modality and dose of compression.
One study compared 4 hours of leg compression with
72 hours of leg compression after radiofrequency
ablation of the GSV.22 This trial of 101 patients excluded
Clinical, Etiologic, Anatomic, and Pathophysiologic
(CEAP) C5 and C6 disease, bilateral radiofrequency ablation, small saphenous vein ablation, and preoperative
noncompliance to compressive therapy. The study
demonstrated that patients with the shorter duration
of compression had a greater reduction in leg volume
and experienced a lower number of complications.
Postoperative pain and time to full recovery did not differ
between the groups. The study concluded that wearing
compression stockings for a shorter time was not inferior
to compression for a longer time. It was not reported in
this study how many (if any) patients had underlying
deep venous insufﬁciency.
An endovenous laser ablation study of 109 patients
excluded those with deep venous insufﬁciency, venous
ulceration, more than one insufﬁcient vein per leg,
anticoagulation therapy, and phlebectomies. Outcomes
were compared for those using compression for 2 days
vs those using compression for 7 days after the procedure. All patients were treated with the 810-nm diode
laser with a bare-tip ﬁber. At 1 week, there was a signiﬁcant difference in the pain score and in physical dysfunction and vitality in favor of the longer period of
compression, but the advantages disappeared by
6 weeks. There was no difference in successful GSV
occlusion between the groups. These authors recommended that at the end of 48 hours, the patient should
be allowed to decide whether the inconvenience of
wearing stockings outweighed the possible pain and
reduced physical function associated with not wearing
them.27 In another study using the 810-nm diode laser,
compression was applied for 1 week postoperatively
using 20 to 30 mm Hg stockings. Complete resolution
of varicosities was noted in 42% of patients at 1 month,
with a reduction of varicose vein size in 56% of patients.
There were no complications related to the compression
therapy.30 Another study used the 1470-nm laser. Patients were excluded from this study if they had an
incompetent anterior accessory GSV, incompetent small
saphenous vein, deep venous insufﬁciency, DVT, hypercoagulability, general poor health status, aneurysmal veins
>2 cm in diameter, very tortuous veins, nonpalpable
pedal pulses, and inability to ambulate or were pregnant
or breastfeeding. The short-term occlusion rate was
99%, and the midterm rate was 100%. Induration or
swelling was the most common complication (13%),
with no major complications such as DVT or pulmonary
embolism. The Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS)
decreased signiﬁcantly. In this study, patients wore a

compression bandage for the ﬁrst 24 hours and then
an elastic full-length stocking (20-30 mm Hg) for 4 weeks.
Although there was no comparison group, the study reported that 4 weeks of compression was well tolerated
and was successful after ablation with the 1470-nm
laser.31
The duration of compression stockings has also been
evaluated after surgical ablation of varicose veins (stripping and ligation). One study evaluated 104 patients
with GSV incompetence treated with inversion stripping
after excluding patients unable to wear elastic compression stockings, those already wearing compression stockings, and those with venous leg ulcers. It was not deﬁned
whether patients with deep venous insufﬁciency were
excluded. All patients were treated with compression
bandaging for 3 days, then divided into a group treated
for an additional 4 weeks and a group without additional
treatment. Measured 4 weeks postoperatively, there was
no signiﬁcant difference in limb volume between the
two groups, and in fact patients without stockings actually returned to work faster. The authors suggested that
wearing an elastic compression stocking had no additional beneﬁt after compression bandaging for 3 days
after inversion stripping.26 A contrary ﬁnding was
observed in a study of female patients who were randomized into groups using compression therapy with
low-strength (18-21 mm Hg) vs moderate-strength
(23-32 mm Hg) compression stockings after undergoing
vein ablation surgery. The patients wore compression
for 6 weeks postoperatively. In this study, there were
many exclusion criteria, although deep venous insufﬁciency was not speciﬁed. Surgical procedures included
ligation and stripping of the great or small saphenous
vein, phlebectomy of tributaries, ligation of perforating
veins, phlebectomy of recurrent veins, and redo surgery
at the saphenofemoral or saphenopopliteal junctions.
One week after surgery, patients in the higher compression group had lower edema scores, reduced feeling of
tightness, and greater reduction in discomfort. At
6 weeks, there was no difference in these outcomes
between the two groups. There were no differences in
rates of complications at either 1 week or 6 weeks postoperatively. The authors concluded that there was an
advantage for moderate compression after vein ablation
surgery, and they recommended compression under
such circumstances.25
Finally, in one study, 979 limbs underwent procedures
for varicose veins and venous insufﬁciency, with the
majority of patients undergoing an ablation and a Trivex
(LeMaitre Vascular, Burlington, Mass) powered phlebectomy.36 The VCSS improved signiﬁcantly more with ablation plus Trivex compared with ablation alone. In this
study, all patients were wrapped with a short-stretch
compression bandage immediately after the procedure
and encouraged to ambulate. They were compressed
for at least 2 weeks postoperatively, with long-term

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

23

Volume 7, Number 1

compression determined by the status of reﬂux in the
deep venous system. Using this algorithm, patients
demonstrated a signiﬁcant improvement in VCSS with
a complication rate of 1.6% DVT, 3.7% endothermal
heat-induced thrombosis, 0.82% infection, 5.1% hematoma, and 4.9% superﬁcial thrombophlebitis.
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
varicose vein guidelines have addressed the question of
compression duration on the basis of two studies, one
with foam sclerotherapy plus compression vs sclerotherapy alone and one with venous surgery plus compression
vs venous surgery alone. The guidelines suggest, “If offering compression bandaging or hosiery for use after interventional treatment, do not use for more than 7 days.”
In addition, “As there was no convincing evidence for
using or not using compression therapy the Guideline
Development Group [GDG] felt they could not make a
recommendation not to use stockings at all post
intervention and the consensus was that in their clinical
experience some people post-surgery did feel beneﬁt
from wearing stockings. However, the GDG, taking into
account the cost of compression therapy, felt they could
not recommend its long term use. Patients can be
advised that in most instances they are able to return
to work whilst wearing compression bandaging or
hosiery.”
Thus, it is clear that the real issue may not be compression after venous surgery but that the compression
needs to be tailored to the overall status of the venous
insufﬁciency. In a patient with only superﬁcial venous
reﬂux, compression may not be needed at all or may
be needed only for the ﬁrst few hours to days, whereas
for patients with signiﬁcant deep venous insufﬁciency
and deep venous reﬂux, compression is likely to be
needed not only in the postoperative period but also
long term.

3. COMPRESSION AFTER SCLEROTHERAPY
Guideline 3.1: Compression therapy after sclerotherapy.
We suggest compression therapy over no compression
therapy immediately after treatment of superﬁcial veins
with sclerotherapy to improve outcomes of sclerotherapy.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.2: Duration of compression therapy after
sclerotherapy.
In the absence of convincing evidence we recommend best
clinical judgment to determine the duration of compression
therapy after sclerotherapy. [BEST PRACTICE]

A total of 18 relevant publications were identiﬁed34,35,37-52;
1 was a systematic review,40 2 were guidelines,51,52 1 was a
consensus document,50 2 were opinion papers,38,39
4 were RCTs,37,42,44,45 and 8 were nonrandomized observational studies.34,35,41,43,46-49 Included studies were heterogeneous with regard to measured outcomes and the
modality, duration, and dose of compression. The majority

of observational studies did not have comparison groups.
None of the included RCTs used outcome measures
differentially for asymptomatic cosmetic and symptomatic
medical patients.
Most physicians treating varicose veins advocate the
use of compression after sclerotherapy. The duration
and degree of compression are, however, controversial.
Graduated compression therapy reduces the risk of
DVT, edema, and superﬁcial phlebitis; immediate
compression allows more direct apposition of the
treated vein walls, which in turn enhances sclerosis and
decreases thrombus formation.38 The physiologic effects
of graduated compression include increased blood ﬂow
velocity in the deep veins, increased prostacyclin production, increased local capillary clearance, increased transcutaneous oxygen pressure, increased expelled capillary
volume at exercise, and increased release of plasminogen activator. Graduated compression also decreases
capacity and pressure in the veins, decreases visible
superﬁcial varicose veins, and decreases edema and
lipodermatosclerosis.39 All of these effects may justify
the use of compression therapy in patients with chronic
venous disease including after treatment with
sclerotherapy.
A Cochrane collaborative review in 2013 evaluated the
use of elastic compression vs conventional bandaging
after sclerotherapy and concluded that no standard
method of compression after sclerotherapy could be recommended.40 Compression options reviewed included
crepe bandaging, proprietary elastic bandaging, and
compression stockings. Increasing the level of compression prevented dressings from slipping but also caused
more discomfort. Increased elastic compression had no
effect on the incidence of superﬁcial thrombophlebitis
or risk of skin staining. In addition, elastic compression
had no signiﬁcant effect on the disappearance of varicosities per their review.
In a prospective study of 100 patients, 120 limbs with
primary varicose veins treated with polidocanol as a
sclerosant were evaluated. The empty vein technique
was used, and immediately after injection, a long cotton
roll was placed over the entire vein and additional
compression was applied with class I and class II medical
compression hosiery.41 This study reported good sclerosing results in all patients treated. The side effects
were classiﬁed as early or late. There were minor side
effects in 16 patients. Superﬁcial venous blood clots and
phlebitis occurred in three cases, which needed microthrombectomy. This study supported the effectiveness
of cotton wool roll compression at the location of treatment by using the roll as part of the compression
therapy. The result was that compression therapy was
more effective and easier to perform. One RCT evaluated
124 limbs randomized to receive bandaging for 24 hours
vs 5 days. It found no advantage to compression
bandaging for >24 hours when thromboembolic

24

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

deterrent stockings were worn for 14 days after the initial
bandaging.42
Raj et al43 addressed the issue of compression
bandaging and how long bandages maintain their pressure during ambulatory treatment of varicose veins. They
recommended that compression bandaging be worn for
6 weeks after sclerotherapy. However, pressures under
these bandages were measured during 8 hours, and
the results showed that different surgeons applied
bandages over a wide range of pressures. The initial
pressures were also higher when standard compression
pads were used, although the rate at which the pressure
fell was about the same.
The question of short-term vs long-term standard
bandaging after sclerotherapy was also addressed in
the Cochrane review.53 The duration of compression
(short vs standard time) after sclerotherapy was the
subject of four randomized trials. The following
assessed outcomes favored short-term application of
bandages: cosmetic and symptomatic improvement54;
recurrent varicose veins55,56; complications such as
phlebitis, staining, pain, blistering, and ulceration33;
and discomfort, slipping, foot swelling, and bandage
intolerance.33,56
Two different studies addressed the effectiveness of
compression stockings and their duration for sclerotherapy treating reticular veins and telangiectasia in
similar patients. Weiss et al34 studied 40 patients, 30
of whom received compression therapy and 10 of
whom did not. The compression group consisted of 3
subgroups of 10 patients each, receiving compression
for 3 days, 1 week, or 3 weeks. The patients were evaluated at 1 week, 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and
24 weeks for the degree of improvement and side
effects. All three compression subgroups showed
signiﬁcantly greater improvement at 6 weeks
compared with controls. Patients treated with
compression for 3 days and 1 week showed better
improvement than the control patients, but patients
treated for 3 weeks of continuous compression had
the most improvement. In terms of side effects, the
1-week and 3-week compression groups experienced
the least amount of hyperpigmentation after sclerotherapy.34 In another study by Kern et al,44 100 female
patients seeking treatment for telangiectasia and
reticular veins were randomized to wear medical
compression stockings (23-32 mm Hg) daily for 3 weeks
vs no compression after a single session of liquid
sclerotherapy. The outcomes were compared on the
basis of a patient satisfaction analysis and a quantitative evaluation of photographs taken before the procedure and at a mean of 52 days after sclerotherapy
by two blinded expert reviewers. Wearing compression
stockings of 23 to 32 mm Hg for 3 weeks enhanced
the efﬁcacy of sclerotherapy by improving vessel

disappearance. Three weeks of continuous compression led to the best results, although even 3 days of
compression resulted in greater improvement
compared with no compression. Compression also
led to a statistically signiﬁcant reduction in hyperpigmentation after sclerotherapy.44
Two studies compared thigh-high compression
stockings vs bandaging after liquid sclerotherapy. The
ﬁrst was an RCT by Scurr et al.45 Efﬁcacy was evaluated
on the basis of a need for successive injections, complications of treatment, and patient satisfaction. In the
patients receiving stockings, 144 of 156 injections were
successful compared with 117 of 147 in the bandaged
group. The incidence of superﬁcial vein phlebitis
and thrombosis was also reduced in the stocking
group. In a second study of high-compression stockings alone by Shouler and Runchman,46 it was
concluded that bandaging after sclerotherapy was
not required if high-compression stockings were going
to be used.
Nootheti et al35 looked at results of sclerotherapy after
3 weeks of graduated compression with class I
(20-30 mm Hg) stockings compared with 1 week of class
II (30-40 mm Hg) compression stockings. This was a
small study with 29 patients being treated for reticular
and telangiectatic veins. One leg was assigned to wear
a class II stocking for 1 week, and the contralateral leg
was assigned to 3 weeks of class I graduated compression. Pigmentation and bruising after sclerotherapy
were signiﬁcantly less in the group with 3 weeks of class
I graduated compression.
Fentem et al47 studied healthy volunteers comparing
bandaging using a large ﬂat compression pad vs a small
narrow pad. Different surgeons achieved different
degrees of compression. The use of a foam pad over
the injection site was successful as long as ﬁbrinous
occlusion in the vein took place. This study suggested
the need to measure pressures under the bandaging.
Some studies have questioned the need for compression after sclerotherapy. The effectiveness of compression bandaging or stockings in patients undergoing
foam sclerotherapy was studied in a randomized trial
of 124 limbs with 24 hours vs 5 days of bandaging.37 There
was no signiﬁcant difference between the two groups in
the incidence of superﬁcial thrombophlebitis after
2 weeks or skin discoloration after 6 weeks. There was
no signiﬁcant difference in the change of the Buford
pain score from baseline to 2 weeks or in the change of
the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey score from baseline to 6 weeks. In a randomized controlled study performed at two centers, 60 patients with incompetent
GSV and short saphenous veins underwent ultrasoundguided foam sclerotherapy.37 One group was treated
with compression stockings (15-20 mm Hg) for 3 weeks
and the other group was treated without compression.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

25

Volume 7, Number 1

The efﬁcacy of sclerotherapy and side effects were
assessed. On days 14 and 28, clinical and duplex ultrasound assessments were performed by independent
experts; the patients also completed a quality of life
questionnaire and reported satisfaction scores. The study
found no difference between compression and control
groups in comparing treatment efﬁcacy, side effects,
satisfaction scores, symptoms, and quality of life scores.
The authors recommended further studies to establish
the role of compression in sclerotherapy and to evaluate
other compression strategies.
Thomasset et al49 designed a prospectively collective
database of ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy.
They evaluated 126 patients who had undergone
targeted ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy of the
GSV (n ¼ 75), the small saphenous vein (n ¼ 13), and
the anterior accessary saphenous vein (n ¼ 9). They had
a mean follow-up of 3 months and used duplex ultrasound scans for evaluation of complete occlusion of
the target vessel. The only factor associated with vessel
outcome was compliance of postprocedure compression therapy. The only factor associated with complications after foam sclerotherapy was female sex. Their
data suggested that compliance with postprocedure
compression therapy and sex were important factors in
successful outcome. Patients were treated with foam
pads that were applied over the treated vein, and then
class II thigh-length graduated compression stockings
with a waist extension were applied over the foam
pads after the procedure. Foam pads were worn for
1 week, and stockings were then worn for a total of
6 weeks.
It is appropriate to assume that compression after
sclerotherapy maximizes venous wall apposition and
contact with the intraluminal sclerosant, thereby allowing more effective panendothelial destruction and
endosclerosis. Existing data suggest that compression
after sclerotherapy improves the clinical disappearance
of superﬁcial veins and reduces pigmentation and
bruising. The preponderance of evidence suggests that
compression should be considered an integral part of
management after sclerotherapy. However, despite
several consensus statements, no conclusion can been
reached on the basis of current data as to the best
method, dose, or duration of compression that achieves
optimal results after sclerotherapy.19,50-52 A key component in all of the studies analyzing compression treatment for venous disease is the issue of compliance,
and in most studies this outcome is not reported.
Well-designed RCTs are needed to provide deﬁnitive
information.
The impact of compression on the efﬁcacy of foam
sclerotherapy remains to be determined as this is only
one of the confounding variables affecting outcomes.
The evidence for compression recommendations is

incomplete, but the standard of care and current
medical practice of those treating varicose veins
are to recommend and to perform some form of
compression.

4. COMPRESSION AFTER TREATMENT OF
SUPERFICIAL VEINS IN PATIENTS WITH VENOUS
LEG ULCERS
Guideline 4.1: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment
in patients with a venous leg ulcer
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer, we recommend
compression therapy over no compression therapy to
increase venous leg ulcer healing rate and to decrease the
risk of ulcer recurrence. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.2: Compression after superﬁcial vein treatment
in patients with a mixed arterial and venous leg ulcer
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer and underlying arterial
disease, we suggest limiting the use of compression to
patients with ankle-brachial index exceeding 0.5 or if
absolute ankle pressure is >60 mm Hg. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - C]

A total of seven relevant publications were identiﬁed,57-63
of which one was a systematic review,58 one was a guideline published by the AVF and the SVS,57 and ﬁve were
nonrandomized observational studies.59-63 The AVF/SVS
guidelines were published in 2014 and used the same
methodology as the current report. We were not able to
identify any additional studies that were published subsequent to that report and that have sufﬁcient information
to consider modiﬁcation of the AVF/SVS guidelines.
The management of patients with venous ulcers is
often complex and time-consuming and uses a variety
of modalities including surgical procedures. A great
deal of time, effort, and expense goes into the healing
of these lesions. A variety of etiologic factors are associated with the development of these ulcers, and several
such factors persist after treatment is completed. Attention must be directed toward the modiﬁcation of these
factors when possible, and neutralizing the increased
venous leg pressure is a common goal in these patients.
Appropriate compression therapy using short-stretch
bandages, multilayer bandages, Unna boots, and various
forms of pneumatic compression is the keystone to
correcting elevated venous leg pressure in patients with
leg ulcers. Once ulcer healing has been achieved, it
becomes less feasible to continue these types of
compression modalities during patients’ everyday lives.
As a result, elastic stockings are prescribed for these
patients once the ulcers have healed regardless of the
underlying pathophysiologic process that initially led to
the development of the ulcer.
Two important aspects that may determine the success
of preventing ulcer recurrence using compression must

26

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

be considered. The ﬁrst of these is the technical ability of
the patient to actually don and doff the stocking
properly. This may be difﬁcult because of the patient’s
size, strength, or arthritic conditions that may make
manipulation of the heavy stocking impractical. The
second factor is the extent of the increase in venous pressure and resulting edema of the leg. This is particularly
true for patients who are morbidly obese and in whom
the leg venous pressure is very high because of increased
intra-abdominal pressure from large abdominal girth.
This pressure increase will overwhelm an elastic product
and result in recurrent edema, with a high risk for recurrent ulceration. Aids for donning and dofﬁng stockings
are often awkward, and the techniques required can
be difﬁcult to master.
Velcro compression devices are an alternative to elastic
stockings because their inelastic nature produces higher
compression during ambulation, which in turn reduces
venous stasis and edema. The adjustable nature of these
devices also allows tightening as the leg volume
decreases as well as loosening when discomfort occurs.
Finally, these devices are easy to apply and remove,
even in patients with physical limitations.53,64-67
Multiple studies have been published addressing
different aspects of compression therapy in patients
with open and healed venous ulcers. Current evidence
supports using compression for ulcer healing.57,58 None
of the publications to date speciﬁcally address the role
and effectiveness of compression after treatment of superﬁcial veins in patients with venous ulcers. In the
absence of such data, it is reasonable and safe to follow
recommendations for the entire population of patients
with venous ulcers, namely, that compression therapy
should be recommended to increase venous leg ulcer
healing rates and to decrease recurrence rates.
Leg ulcers frequently have mixed etiology. An important etiologic comorbidity that is relevant to compression therapy is peripheral artery disease, which can
coexist in up to 25% of patients with venous ulcers.5962
Use of compression in patients with signiﬁcantly
compromised arterial perfusion of the limb is considered unsafe. Data supporting use of modiﬁed compression with reduced compression pressure for healing of
mixed ulcers is limited to a few small studies.57,62,63
Therefore, the preferred practice is to limit the use of
compression to patients with an ankle-brachial
index exceeding 0.5 or if absolute ankle pressure is
>60 mm Hg.
After review of these data, we ﬁnd that the published
literature provides a low level of evidence. The need for
further studies with level 1 data with larger data sets is
clearly needed. In addition, the national databases that
are being developed may add future possibilities to
address some of these issues. Much of the literature
does not include patient-centered quality of life assessments of these interventions when, in truth, these

disease processes directly affect quality of life. These limitations offer opportunities for future research to help
focus future guidelines.

REFERENCES
1. Shami SK, Cheatle TR. Conventional sclerotherapy versus
surgery for varicose veins. In: Shami SK, Cheatle TR, editors.
Fegan’s compression sclerotherapy for varicose veins.
London: Springer-Verlag; 2003.
2. Guyatt G, Gutterman D, Baumann MH, Addrizzo-Harris D,
Hylek EM, Phillips B, et al. Grading strength of recommendations and quality of evidence in clinical guidelines: report
from an American College of Chest Physicians task force.
Chest 2006;129:174-81.
3. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for
Vascular Surgery including the experience with the GRADE
framework. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
4. Flour M, Clark M, Partsch H, Mosti G, Uhl JF, Chauveau M,
et al. Dogmas and controversies in compression therapy:
report of an International Compression Club (ICC) meeting,
Brussels, May 2011. Int Wound J 2013;10:516-26.
5. Kalodiki E. Use of intermittent pneumatic compression in
the treatment of venous ulcers. Future Cardio 2007;3:185-91.
6. Partsch H, Clark M, Mosti G, Steinlechner E, Schuren J,
Abel M, et al. Classiﬁcation of compression bandages:
practical aspects. Dermatol Surg 2008;34:600-9.
7. Moffatt C. Variability of pressure provided by sustained
compression. Int Wound J 2008;5:259-65.
8. Blazek C, Amsler F, Blaettler W, Keo HH, Baumgartner I,
Willenberg T. Compression hosiery for occupational leg
symptoms and leg volume: a randomized crossover trial in a
cohort of hairdressers. Phlebology 2013;28:239-47.
9. Hagan MJ, Lambert SM. A randomised crossover study of lowankle-pressure graduated compression tights in reducing
ﬂight-induced ankle oedema. Med J Aust 2008;188:81-4.
10. Beidler SK, Douillet CD, Berndt DF, Keagy BA, Rich PB,
Marston WA. Inﬂammatory cytokine levels in chronic venous
insufﬁciency ulcer tissue before and after compression
therapy. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:1013-20.
11. Staubesand J, Seydewitz V. An ultrastructural study of
sclerosed varices. Phlebologie 1991;44:16.
12. Lugli M, Cogo A, Guerzoni S, Petti A, Maleti O. Effects of
eccentric compression by a crossed-tape technique after
endovenous laser ablation of the great saphenous vein: a
randomized study. Phlebology 2009;24:151-6.
13. Mosti G, Mattaliano V, Arleo S, Partsch H. Thigh compression
after great saphenous surgery is more effective with high
pressure. Int Angiol 2009;28:274-80.
14. Ferrara F, Ferrera G. Sclerotherapy in the patient with diabetes:
indications and results. Phlebolymphology 2012;19:193-8.
15. Ragg J. Film compression bandage: a new modality to
improve sclerotherapy of superﬁcial varicosities. Veins
Lymphat 2017;6:6635-6.
16. Barnaby J, Azzam M, Choe E, Ash S, Kalodiki E, Lattimer CR.
The effect of tangential skin compression with adhesive
tape in reducing the size of bulging varicose veins [Abstract].
Surgical Academic Research Society; Nottingham, UK;
January 10-11, 2018.
17. Ricci S, Moro L, Trillo L, Incalzi RA. Foot-sparing postoperative
compression bandage: a possible alternative to the
traditional bandage. Phlebology 2013;28:47-50.
18. Uhl JF, Benigni JP, Chahim M, Fréderic D. Prospective
randomized controlled study of patient compliance in using
a compression stocking: importance of recommendations

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Lurie et al

27

Volume 7, Number 1
of the practitioner as a factor for better compliance.
Phlebology 2018;33:36-43.
19. El-Sheikha J, Carradice D, Nandhra S, Leung C, Smith GE,
Campbell B, Chetter IC. Systematic review of compression
following treatment for varicose veins. Br J Surg 2015;102:
719-25.
20. Wittens C, Davies AH, Baekgaard N, Broholm R, Cavezzi A,
Chastanet S. Editor’s choicedmanagement of chronic
venous disease: clinical practice guidelines of the European
Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS). Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2015;49:678-737.
21. Varicose veins in the legs: the diagnosis and management of
varicose veins. London: National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence; 2013.
22. Krasznai AG, Sigterman TA, Troquay S, HoutermansAuckel JP, Snoeijs M, Rensma HG, et al. A randomised
controlled trial comparing compression therapy after radiofrequency ablation for primary great saphenous vein
incompetence. Phlebology 2016;31:118-24.
23. Bond R, Whyman MR, Wilkins DC, Walker AJ, Ashley S.
A randomised trial of different compression dressings
following varicose vein surgery. Phlebology 1999;14:9-11.
24. Elderman JH, Krasznai AG, Voogd AC, Hulsewé KW,
Sikkink CJ. Role of compression stockings after endovenous
laser therapy for primary varicosis. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2014;2:289-96.
25. Reich-Schupke S, Feldhaus F, Altmeyer P, Mumme A,
Stücker M. Efﬁcacy and comfort of medical compression
stockings with low and moderate pressure six weeks after
vein surgery. Phlebology 2014;29:358-66.
26. Houtermans-Auckel JP, van Rossum E, Teijink JA,
Dahlmans AA, Eussen EF, Nicolaï SP, et al. To wear or not to
wear compression stockings after varicose vein stripping: a
randomised controlled trial. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2009;38:387-91.
27. Bakker NA, Schieven LW, Bruins RM, van den Berg M,
Hissink RJ. Compression stockings after endovenous laser
ablation of the great saphenous vein: a prospective randomized controlled trial. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;46:588-92.
28. Benigni JP, Allaert FA, Desoutter P, Cohen-Solal G,
Stalnikiewicz X. The efﬁciency of pain control using a thigh
pad under the elastic stocking in patients following venous
stripping: results of a case-control study. Perspect Vasc Surg
Endovasc Ther 2011;23:238-43.
29. Biswas S, Clark A, Shields DA. Randomised clinical trial of the
duration of compression therapy after varicose vein surgery.
Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2007;33:631-7.
30. Schanzer H. Endovenous ablation plus microphlebectomy/
sclerotherapy for the treatment of varicose veins: single or
two-stage procedure? Vasc Endovascular Surg 2010;44:545-9.
31. Altin FH, Aydin S, Erkoc K, Gunes T, Eygi B, Kutas BH. Endovenous laser ablation for saphenous vein insufﬁciency: shortand mid-term results of 230 procedures. Vascular 2015;23:3-8.
32. Obi AT, Reames BN, Rook TJ, Mouch SO, Zarinsefat A,
Stabler C, et al. Outcomes associated with ablation
compared to combined ablation and transilluminated
powered phlebectomy in the treatment of venous varicosities. Phlebology 2016;31:618-24.
33. Fraser IA, Perry EP, Hatton M, Watkin DF. Prolonged
bandaging is not required following sclerotherapy of varicose veins. Br J Surg 1985;72:488-90.
34. Weiss RA, Sadick NS, Goldman MP, Weiss MA. Post-sclerotherapy compression: controlled comparative study of
duration of compression and its effects on clinical outcome.
Dermatol Surg 1999;25:105-8.
35. Nootheti PK, Cadag KM, Magpantay A, Goldman MP. Efﬁcacy
of graduated compression stockings for an additional 3

weeks after sclerotherapy treatment of reticular and telangiectatic leg veins. Dermatol Surg 2009;35:53-7; discussion: 57.
36. Obi EE, Lakhani BK, Burns J, Sampath R. Optic nerve sheath
fenestration for idiopathic intracranial hypertension: a seven
year review of visual outcomes in a tertiary centre. Clin
Neurol Neurosurg 2015;137:94-101.
37. Hamel-Desnos CM, Guias BJ, Desnos PR, Mesgard A. Foam
sclerotherapy of the saphenous veins: randomised
controlled trial with or without compression. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2010;39:500-7.
38. Mann MW. Sclerotherapy: it is back and better. Clin Plast
Surg 2011;38:475-87,vii.
39. Johnson S. Compression hosiery in the prevention and
treatment of venous leg ulcers. J Tissue Viability 2002;12:67,
70, 72-4.
40. Tisi PV, Beverley C, Rees A. Injection sclerotherapy for varicose veins. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2006;4:CD001732.
41. Tazelaar DJ, Neumann HA, De Roos KP. Long cotton wool
rolls as compression enhancers in macrosclerotherapy for
varicose veins. Dermatol Surg 1999;25:38-40.
42. O’Hare J, Stephens J, Parkin D, Earnshaw J. Randomized
clinical trial of different bandage regimens after foam
sclerotherapy for varicose veins. Br J Surg 1980;67:122-4.
43. Raj TB, Goddard M, Makin GS. How long do compression
bandages maintain their pressure during ambulatory treatment of varicose veins? Br J Surg 1980;67:122-4.
44. Kern P, Ramelet AA, Wütschert R, Hayoz D. Compression
after sclerotherapy for telangiectasias and reticular leg veins:
a randomized controlled study. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:1212-6.
45. Scurr JH, Coleridge-Smith P, Cutting P. Varicose veins: optimum compression following sclerotherapy. Ann R Coll Surg
Engl 1985;67:109-11.
46. Shouler PJ, Runchman PC. Varicose veins: optimum
compression after surgery and sclerotherapy. Ann R Coll
Surg Engl 1989;71:402-4.
47. Fentem PH, Goddard M, Gooden BA, Yeung CK. Control of
distension of varicose veins achieved by leg bandages, as
used after injection sclerotherapy. Br Med J 1976;2:725-7.
48. Lattimer CR, Azzam M, Kalodiki E, Geroulakos G. Hemodynamic changes at the saphenofemoral junction during the
application of a below-knee graduated compression stocking. Dermatol Surg 2012;38:1991-7.
49. Thomasset SC, Butt Z, Liptrot S, Fairbrother BJ,
Makhdoomi KR. Ultrasound guided foam sclerotherapy:
factors associated with outcomes and complications. Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2010;40:389-92.
50. Weiss MA, Hsu JTS, Neuhaus I, Sadick NS, Duffy DM.
Consensus for sclerotherapy. Dermatol Surg 2014;40:1309-18.
51. Khunger N, Sacchidanand S. Standard guidelines for care:
sclerotherapy in dermatology. Indian J Dermatol Venereol
Leprol 2011;77:222-31.
52. Nicolaides A, Kakkos S, Eklof B, Perrin M, Nelzen O, Neglen P,
et al. Management of chronic venous disorders of the lower
limbsdguidelines according to scientiﬁc evidence. Int
Angiol 2014;33:87-208.
53. Mosti G, Partsch H. Self-management by ﬁrm, non-elastic
adjustable compression wrap device. Veins Lymphat
2017;6:7003.
54. Raj TB, Makin GS. A random controlled trial of two forms of
compression bandaging in outpatient sclerotherapy of
varicose veins. J Surg Res 1981;31:440-5.
55. Batch AJ, Wickremesinghe SS, Gannon ME, Dormandy JA.
Randomised trial of bandaging after sclerotherapy for varicose veins. Br Med J 1980;281:423.
56. Moody A, Nicklin S, Wilcox A, Enabi L, Harris P. Prospectively
randomised trial of 1 versus 6 weeks of compression after
sclerotherapy for varicose veins. Br J Surg 1996;83:48.

28

Lurie et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
January 2019

57. O’Donnell TJ, Passman M. Clinical practice guidelines of the
Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) and the American Venous
Forum (AVF)dmanagement of venous leg ulcers. Introduction. J Vasc Surg 2014;60(Suppl):1S-2S.
58. Ubbink DT, Santema TB, Stoekenbroek RM. Systemic wound
care: a meta-review of Cochrane systematic reviews. Surg
Technol Int 2014;24:99-111.
59. Nelzen O, Bergqvist D, Lindhagen A. Venous and
non-venous leg ulcers: clinical history and appearance in a
population study. Br J Surg 1994;81:182-7.
60. Korber A, Klode J, Al-Benna S, Wax C, Schadendorf D,
Steinstraesser L. Etiology of chronic leg ulcers in 31,619
patients in Germany analyzed by an expert survey. J Dtsch
Dermatol Ges 2011;9:116-21.
61. Andersson E, Hansson C, Swanbeck G. Leg and foot ulcer
prevalence and investigation of the peripheral arterial and
venous circulation in a randomised elderly population. An

epidemiological survey and clinical investigation. Acta Derm
Venereol 1993;73:57-61.
62. Callam MJ, Harper DR, Dale JJ, Ruckley CV. Chronic ulcer of
the leg: clinical history. Br Med J 1987;294:1389-91.
63. Mayrovitz HN, Macdonald JM. Medical compression: effects
on pulsatile leg blood ﬂow. Int Angiol 2010;29:436-41.
64. Damstra RJ, Partsch H. Prospective, randomized, controlled
trial comparing the effectiveness of adjustable compression
Velcro wraps versus inelastic multicomponent compression
bandages in the initial treatment of leg lymphedema. J Vasc
Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2013;1:13-9.
65. Partsch H, Mosti G. Sport socks do not enhance calf muscle
pump function but inelastic wraps do. Int Angiol 2014;33:511-7.
66. Caprini J. Velcro compression devices. Veins Lymphat 2017;6:
6624.
67. Arkans E. Intelli-press wrap. XVIII World Congress of
Phlebology; Melbourne, Australia; February 4-8, 2018.

