From the Society for Vascular Surgery

Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines for
atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the lower
extremities: Management of asymptomatic disease
and claudication
Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Guidelines Writing Group: Michael S. Conte, MD, (Co-Chair),a
Frank B. Pomposelli, MD, (Co-Chair),b Daniel G. Clair, MD,c Patrick J. Geraghty, MD,d
James F. McKinsey, MD,e Joseph L. Mills, MD,f Gregory L. Moneta, MD,g M. Hassan Murad, MD,h
Richard J. Powell, MD,i Amy B. Reed, MD,j Andres Schanzer, MD,k and Anton N. Sidawy, MD, MPH,l San
Francisco, Calif; Boston and Worcester, Mass; Cleveland, Ohio; St. Louis, Mo; New York, NY; Tucson, Ariz; Portland,
Ore; Rochester, Minn; Lebanon, NH; Hershey, Pa; and Washington, D.C.
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) continues to grow in global prevalence and consumes an increasing amount of resources in the
United States health care system. Overall rates of intervention for PAD have been rising steadily in recent years. Changing
demographics, evolution of technologies, and an expanding database of outcomes studies are primary forces inﬂuencing clinical
decision making in PAD. The management of PAD is multidisciplinary, involving primary care physicians and vascular specialists
with varying expertise in diagnostic and treatment modalities. PAD represents a broad spectrum of disease from asymptomatic
through severe limb ischemia. The Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Practice Guidelines committee reviewed the
evidence supporting clinical care in the treatment of asymptomatic PAD and intermittent claudication (IC). The committee
made speciﬁc practice recommendations using the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation Assessment, Development and
Evaluation) system. There are limited Level I data available for many of the critical questions in the ﬁeld, demonstrating the
urgent need for comparative effectiveness research in PAD. Emphasis is placed on risk factor modiﬁcation, medical therapies, and
broader use of exercise programs to improve cardiovascular health and functional performance. Screening for PAD appears of
unproven beneﬁt at present. Revascularization for IC is an appropriate therapy for selected patients with disabling symptoms,
after a careful risk-beneﬁt analysis. Treatment should be individualized based on comorbid conditions, degree of functional
impairment, and anatomic factors. Invasive treatments for IC should provide predictable functional improvements with
reasonable durability. A minimum threshold of a >50% likelihood of sustained efﬁcacy for at least 2 years is suggested as a
benchmark. Anatomic patency (freedom from restenosis) is considered a prerequisite for sustained efﬁcacy of revascularization
in IC. Endovascular approaches are favored for most candidates with aortoiliac disease and for selected patients with femoropopliteal disease in whom anatomic durability is expected to meet this minimum threshold. Conversely, caution is warranted in
the use of interventions for IC in anatomic settings where durability is limited (extensive calciﬁcation, small-caliber arteries,
diffuse infrainguinal disease, poor runoff). Surgical bypass may be a preferred strategy in good-risk patients with these disease
patterns or in those with prior endovascular failures. Common femoral artery disease should be treated surgically, and saphenous
vein is the preferred conduit for infrainguinal bypass grafting. Patients who undergo invasive treatments for IC should be
monitored regularly in a surveillance program to record subjective improvements, assess risk factors, optimize compliance with
cardioprotective medications, and monitor hemodynamic and patency status. (J Vasc Surg 2015;61:2S-41S.)

DEVELOPMENT OF THE GUIDELINES
DOCUMENT
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) Lower Extremity
Guidelines Committee began the process by developing a
From the University of California, San Francisco, San Franciscoa; St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center, Bostonb; Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland,
Ohioc; Washington University Medical School, St. Louisd; Mount Sinai
School of Medicinee; University of Arizona Health Science Center,
Tucsonf; Oregon Health & Science University, Portlandg; Mayo Clinic,
Rochesterh; Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanoni; Penn State
Hershey College of Medicine, Hersheyj; University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcesterk; George Washington University, Washington, D.C.l
Author conﬂict of interest: This information is available in the Appendix.
Independent peer-review and oversight has been provided by members of
the SVS Document Oversight Committee: Peter Gloviczki, MD (Chair),
Mark Eskandari, MD, Thomas Forbes, MD, Glenn LaMuraglia, MD,

2S

detailed outline of the diagnostic and management choices
for peripheral arterial disease (PAD) by stage of disease. Given
the broad scope of the ﬁeld, the committee determined that this
document should focus on the evaluation and management of
Michel Makaroun, MD, Russell Samson, MD, Timur Sarac, MD,
Piergiorgio Settembrini, MD.
Reprint requests: Michael S. Conte, MD, 400 Parnassus Ave, San Francisco,
CA 94143 (e-mail: michael.conte@ucsfmedctr.org).
The editors and reviewers of this article have no relevant ﬁnancial relationships to disclose per the JVS policy that requires reviewers to
decline review of any manuscript for which they may have a conﬂict
of interest.
0741-5214
Copyright Ó 2015 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by
Elsevier Inc.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2014.12.009

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

asymptomatic disease and intermittent claudication (IC). Separate practice guidelines for critical limb ischemia (CLI) will be
established in a future document. The committee developed
sets of key questions and, with the input of a methodologist,
condensed these into topics that framed systematic evidence reviews. The quantity and quality of evidence available was also an
important factor in determining the rationale for the systematic
review topics. De novo evidence reviews were undertaken to
examine the rationale for screening in asymptomatic PAD
and the comparative effectiveness of current treatments for
IC. These systematic reviews are published jointly with this
guideline document.1,2
The committee developed the practice guideline by
assigning two or three members to create primary drafts of
each section of the document, highlighting speciﬁc questions
where recommendations were needed and appropriate. Each
section was then reviewed and revised by the remainder of
the writing group and the two co-chairs. All guideline recommendations were reviewed by the full committee and ﬁnalized
via an iterative, consensus process. In considering available
treatment modalities, we focused on options currently available to patients and physicians in the United States (U.S.).
The Grades of Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework was used for
determining the strength of recommendation and the quality
of evidence, as previously reported.3 The quality of evidence
is rated as high (A), moderate (B), or low (C). This rating is
based on the risk of bias, precision, directness, consistency,
and the size of the effect. The strength of recommendation
is graded based on the quality of evidence, balance between
beneﬁts and harms, patients’ values, preferences, and clinical
context. Recommendations are graded as strong (1) or
weak/conditional (2). The term “we recommend” is used
with strong recommendations, and the term “we suggest”
is used with conditional recommendations.
The methodologist assisted the committee in incorporating the evidence into the recommendations and helped
in rating the quality of evidence and the strength of recommendations. Finally, this guideline was reviewed by the SVS
Documents Oversight Committee that peer reviewed the
document and provided content and methodology expertise.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST
All members of the committee provided updated disclosures on potential conﬂicts of interest (COI), in accordance with SVS policies.4 The ﬁnal roster of the Lower
Extremity Guidelines Committee is in accordance with
the current SVS COI policy, which is summarized elsewhere
(http://www.vascularweb.org/about/policies/Pages/
Conﬂict-of-Interest-Policy.aspx). COI disclosures for each
of the writing group authors are listed at the end of the document in the Appendix.
1. EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS
Although the worldwide prevalence of lower extremity
PAD is uncertain,5 an estimated 8 to 12 million Americans
are affected by PAD.6,7 A clear association between the prevalence of PAD and increased age has been established.8,9 In

Conte and Pomposelli et al 3S

an analysis of 2381 patients participating in the U.S. National
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, the prevalence of
PAD was 4.3% overall, with a prevalence of 0.9% in patients
aged between 40 and 49 years, 2.5% in patients aged between 50 and 59 years, 4.7% in patients aged between 60
and 69 years, and 14.5% in patients aged >69 years.8 The
prevalence of PAD is expected to increase in the United
States and worldwide as the population ages, cigarette smoking persists, and the epidemics of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and obesity grow.7
A recent meta-analysis of 34 studies that examined the
prevalence and risk factors of PAD worldwide shattered
some preconceived notions related to this disease.5 With a
conservative estimate of >202 million afﬂicted with this disease globally, this analysis showed a relative increase in PAD
prevalence of 23.5% during the ﬁrst decade of the new millennium. The most striking increases in prevalence were
seen in low-income and middle-income countries (28.7%),
although signiﬁcant growth was also evident in highincome countries (13.1%). In high-income countries, PAD
prevalence is equal between women and men, whereas in
low-income and middle-income countries, PAD prevalence
is higher in women, especially at younger ages. Increased
longevity (age), smoking, and diabetes are the most strongly
associated risk factors across all nations.
The economic effect of this growing burden of PAD is
being experienced acutely in the United States and in many
other industrialized nations. In 2001, the U.S. Medicare program spent an estimated >$4.3 billion on PAD-related treatment.7 PAD-related treatment accounted for w13% of all
Medicare Part A and B expenditures for patients undergoing
treatment for PAD and for 2.3% of total Medicare Part A and
B expenditures during that year. These Medicare costs have
continued to increase markedly. Analysis of data from the
Reduction of Atherothrombosis for Continued Health
(REACH) Registry estimated total costs of vascular-related
hospitalizations was $21 billion in the United States in
2004, with most costs associated with revascularization procedures.10 Given the ongoing dramatic increases in the use of
invasive treatments, these ﬁgures are likely underestimates of
the current costs for PAD care in the United States.
Evidence of underlying PAD may be present in the
absence of symptoms. For the purpose of this document,
this is referred to as asymptomatic disease. Symptomatic
PAD may present as IC, or with signs or symptoms consistent
with limb-threatening ischemia, often referred to as critical
limb ischemia (CLI). In this guidelines document, we will
only consider IC within the spectrum of symptomatic PAD.
IC is deﬁned as a reproducible discomfort in a speciﬁc
muscle group that is induced by exercise and then relieved
with rest. Although the calf muscles are most often affected,
any leg muscle group, such as those in the thigh or buttock,
may be affected. This condition is caused by arterial obstruction proximal to the affected muscle bed, thereby attenuating exercise-induced augmentation of blood ﬂow leading
to transient muscle ischemia. IC is often the ﬁrst clinical
symptom associated with PAD and the most common. It
is also well documented that many PAD patients experience

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

4S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Fig 1. The approximate odds ratios (ORs) for risk factors associated with the development of peripheral arterial disease
(PAD). Adapted from Inter-Society Consensus for the Management of Peripheral Arterial Disease (TASC II).9

Fig 2. The natural history of patients with intermittent claudication (IC) treated with non-invasive management. CV,
Cardiovascular; MI, myocardial infarction. Adapted from American College of Cardiology/Americal Heart Association
guidelines.43

“atypical” leg symptoms that may reﬂect other pathophysiologic mechanisms (eg, myopathy) or the overlay of concomitant conditions, such as neuropathy, arthritis, and lumbar
spine disease, that inﬂuence lower extremity function.
Numerous population-based studies have attempted to
ascertain the relative proportion of symptomatic patients
amongst all those with PAD; taken in aggregate, these
studies indicate that the ratio of symptomatic to asymptomatic PAD is on the order of 1:3.9,11,12
The risk factors associated with PAD are similar to those
classically identiﬁed in the context of coronary artery disease,
although the relative importance of these factors appears
different (Fig 1).8,11,13-18 Investigators from the Framingham Heart Study analyzing “factors of risk” for coronary artery disease were the ﬁrst to identify demographic and
comorbid factors independently associated with systemic
atherosclerosis.13,15 Numerous reports since have conﬁrmed
that advanced age, tobacco use, diabetes, hypertension,
and hypercholesterolemia are the primary risk factors
associated with PAD. More recent studies have identiﬁed

non-Hispanic black race,8,19 chronic renal insufﬁciency,8,20
and elevated homocysteine levels21,22 as additional factors
associated with the onset of PAD. Elevated markers of
inﬂammation, including high-sensitivity C-reactive protein,
interleukin-6, ﬁbrinogen, soluble vascular cell adhesion
molecule-1, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1, asymmetric dimethylarginine, b-2 macroglobulin, and cystatin C
are novel risk factors whose clinical utility for predicting
PAD onset or progression is not yet clear.23-32
2. DIAGNOSIS
Measurement of the ankle-brachial index (ABI) is the
primary method for establishing the diagnosis of PAD. An
ABI of #0.90 has been demonstrated to have high sensitivity and speciﬁcity for the identiﬁcation of PAD compared
with the gold standard of invasive arteriography.9 Additional
tests, such as carotid intima-media thickness33,34 and
brachial artery ﬂow-mediated dilation,35-37 have shown
promise but have not been broadly applied because they
require more specialized equipment and technical expertise.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 5S

Table I. The differential diagnosis for intermittent claudication (IC) (adapted from Inter-Society Consensus for the
Management of Peripheral Arterial Disease [TASC II])9
Condition

Location

Calf IC

Calf muscles

Thigh and
buttock IC

Buttocks, hip,
thigh

Foot IC

Foot arch

Chronic
Calf muscles
compartment
syndrome
Venous
Entire leg,
claudication
worse in calf

Prevalence

Characteristic

3% of adult Cramping,
population aching
discomfort
Rare
Cramping,
aching,
discomfort

Rare
Rare

Severe pain
on exercise
Tight, bursting
pain

Rare

Tight, bursting
pain

Effect of exercise

Effect
of rest

Effect of
position

Reproducible
onset

Quickly
relieved

None

Reproducible
onset

Quickly
relieved

None

Reproducible
onset
After much
exercise
(jogging)
After walking

Quickly
relieved
Subsides very
slowly

None
Relief with
elevation

Subsides
slowly

Relief speeded
by elevation

Other
characteristic
May have atypical
limb symptoms
on exercise
Impotence. May
have normal
pedal pulses
with isolated
iliac artery
disease
Also may present
as numbness
Typically heavy
muscled
athletes
History of
iliofemoral
deep vein
thrombosis,
signs of venous
congestion,
edema
History of back
problems.
Worse with
sitting. Relief
when supine or
sitting. Not
intermittent
Not intermittent

Nerve root
compression

Radiates down
leg

Common

Sharp
lancinating
pain

Induced by
sitting,
standing, or
walking

Often present
at rest

Improved by
change in
position

Symptomatic
Baker cyst
Hip arthritis

Behind knee,
down calf
Lateral hip,
thigh

Rare

Swelling,
tenderness
Aching
discomfort

With exercise

Present at rest

None

After variable
degree of
exercise

Not quickly
relieved

Spinal stenosis

Often bilateral
buttocks,
posterior leg

Common

Pain and
weakness

May mimic IC

Foot/ankle
arthritis

Ankle, foot,
arch

Common

Aching pain

After variable
degree of
exercise

Variable relief
but can take
a long time
to recover
Not quickly
relieved

Improved when Symptoms
variable.
not weight
bearing
History of
degenerative
arthritis
Relief by
Worse with
lumbar spine
standing and
ﬂexion
extending
spine
May be relieved Variable, may
by not bearing relate to
weight
activity level
and present at
rest

Common

The incremental value of ABI beyond standard risk scores
(eg, Framingham) in predicting future death and cardiovascular events has been established by epidemiologic studies.38
An ABI <0.9 or >1.4 portends an increased risk of major
cardiovascular events.
The question of whether screening for PAD by ABI
would yield public health beneﬁt has been examined by
several groups and remains an area of controversy. A
recent review by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
gave ABI screening an indeterminate rating, stating that
there was insufﬁcient evidence to assess the balance of
beneﬁts and harms.39 The SVS-commissioned meta-analysis1 demonstrates that ABI testing may incrementally
improve cardiovascular risk prediction, but existing

evidence does not support broad population screening
of asymptomatic patients for PAD. However, future
studies may identify targeted subgroups of patients,
particularly those not yet on cardioprotective treatment
regimens (eg, patients with diabetes alone, hypertension
alone, or advanced age without clinically evident cardiovascular disease) that may beneﬁt from PAD screening to
trigger more aggressive medical management. To date,
inadequate data exist to deﬁne these speciﬁc subgroups,
and broad population screening appears unwarranted.
After a patient is identiﬁed with symptoms consistent
with IC and an abnormal ABI, it is important to rule out
other potential etiologies that can mimic PAD symptoms.
The differential diagnosis for IC is extensive and is

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

6S Conte and Pomposelli et al

summarized in Table I. By studying the characteristics
associated with each condition listed in Table I, it is clear
that most alternative diagnoses can be conﬁrmed or
excluded by a thorough history and physical examination.
Careful characterization of the speciﬁc pattern of symptoms, with special attention to the factors that provoke,
exacerbate, and relieve the symptoms, can almost always
result in an accurate diagnosis.
Perhaps worthy of special mention is the differentiation
of neurogenic claudication from vasculogenic claudication,
because this is the most common clinical diagnostic challenge. In contrast to vasculogenic claudication, neurogenic
claudication most often occurs secondary to nerve root
compression on exit from the spinal canal. These symptoms
may often include lower extremity pain that is radiating in
nature, starting at the hips or buttocks and extending down
the affected leg. In addition, radicular pain is frequently
brought on by simple weight bearing or changes in posture
(eg, rising after prolonged sitting) and relieved by a change
in position to relieve the load on the spine (eg, lumbar
ﬂexion, sitting down). These features are in distinct
contrast to vasculogenic claudication, which is induced by
leg exercise and quickly relieved by rest (resulting in a
decrease in muscular metabolic requirement), without a
need to change position.
As mentioned, the cornerstone of the patient assessment for IC consists of a complete history and physical examination. Qualitative assessment of the extremity for signs
of PAD includes the presence of weak or absent distal
pulses, the absence of distal hair growth, evidence of dry
skin secondary to apocrine gland dysfunction, and in the
case of advanced PAD, nonhealing areas of skin breakdown. Quantitative assessment includes noninvasive
vascular testing, of which the cornerstone is the measurement of the ABI. If the ABI is $1.4 secondary to

noncompressibility of the arteries from calciﬁcation, a
toe-brachial index is a useful alternative because the digital
arteries are frequently not calciﬁed. A toe-brachial index
value of #0.7 is indicative of hemodynamically signiﬁcant
arterial insufﬁciency.38 Although not necessary in all patients, further noninvasive testing with segmental pressures
and pulse volume recordings can be helpful in objectively
quantifying the magnitude of the deﬁcit in perfusion and
aiding in localizing the level of arterial obstruction.
In the setting of compelling symptoms and normal
results on noninvasive vascular testing at rest, obtaining
an ABI with exercise can be helpful. A challenge for
establishing diagnostic criteria for the exercise ABI is
the heterogeneity of the protocols used in vascular laboratories.40-42 In general, this test is performed using a
standardized treadmill protocol that asks patients to
walk at a predetermined speed for a maximum of 5 minutes.38 During the test, patients are asked to tell the
personnel when they start to feel pain in the legs. Patients are encouraged to ﬁnish the entire test. Immediately after getting off of the treadmill, the exercise ABI
is calculated. A drop in the ABI to a value #0.9 is indicative of a hemodynamically signiﬁcant arterial obstruction.38 Other more speciﬁc criteria include a drop of
30 mm Hg or 20% of the baseline ABI with exercise,
and a delayed (>3 minutes) recovery.
Additional imaging modalities that can more precisely
localize arterial lesionsdarterial duplex, computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance (MR) angiography (MRA), and contrast arteriographydshould be
reserved for patients in whom revascularization treatment
is being considered. For those patients with asymptomatic
PAD or IC who are not appropriate candidates for revascularization, the costs and potential risks associated with
anatomic studies are not warranted.

Recommendations: Diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease (PAD)

2.1.

2.2.
2.3.

2.4.

2.5.

We recommend using the ABI as the ﬁrst-line noninvasive test to establish a diagnosis of PAD in
individuals with symptoms or signs suggestive of disease. When the ABI is borderline or
normal (>0.9) and symptoms of claudication are suggestive, we recommend an exercise ABI.
We suggest against routine screening for lower extremity PAD in the absence of risk factors,
history, signs, or symptoms of PAD.
For asymptomatic individuals who are at elevated risk, such as those aged >70, smokers, diabetic
patients, those with an abnormal pulse examination, or other established cardiovascular
disease, screening for lower extremity PAD is reasonable if used to improve risk stratiﬁcation,
preventive care, and medical management.
In symptomatic patients who are being considered for revascularization, we suggest using
physiologic noninvasive studies, such as segmental pressures and pulse volume recordings, to
aid in the quantiﬁcation of arterial insufﬁciency and help localize the level of obstruction.
In symptomatic patients in whom revascularization treatment is being considered, we
recommend anatomic imaging studies, such as arterial duplex ultrasound, CTA, MRA, and
contrast arteriography.

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

A

2

C

2

C

2

C

1

B

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CTA, computed tomography angiography; MRA, magnetic resonance angiography.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 7S

Summary of evidence: Diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease (PAD)

Clinical question
Accuracy of ABI in
patients suspected
to have PAD
Accuracy of anatomic
imaging studies and
physiologic
noninvasive studies
in patients suspected
to have PAD

Beneﬁts and harms
of screening
asymptomatic
individuals with ABI
Incremental value of
adding ABI to
traditional risk
assessment tools
(Framingham risk
assessment)

Quality of
evidence

Data source

Finding

Multiple nonrandomized
diagnostic studies with
comparison with the gold
standard
Nonrandomized diagnostic
studies with comparison
with the gold standard

ABI <0.9 has a sensitivity ranging from 79% to
95% with a speciﬁcity of >95%43

A-B

The combination of segmental limb pressures and
pulse volume recordings had a diagnostic
accuracy of 97%.44 Duplex ultrasound imaging
to detect a stenosis $50% in the aortoiliac tract:
sensitivity, 86%; speciﬁcity, 97%; for the
femoropopliteal tract: sensitivity, 80%; speciﬁcity,
96%; for the infragenicular arteries: sensitivity,
83%; speciﬁcity, 84%.45 Accuracy of CT and MR
imaging were >90%46,47
No data on beneﬁt or harm in patient-important
outcomes48

B-C

Reclassiﬁcation of risk and change in treatment
recommendations in w19% of men and 36% of
women49

C

No data

Meta-analysis of cohort
studies. Evidence is
considered indirect
because risk score is a
surrogate outcome

C

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CT, computed tomography; MR, magnetic resonance.
3. MANAGEMENT OF ASYMPTOMATIC
PATIENTS WITH PAD
The incidence of asymptomatic PAD in the U.S. population is substantial, extends across gender and race divisions,
and may be readily conﬁrmed by use of the ABI.11,50 An
important question is whether identiﬁcation and treatment
of the asymptomatic PAD population provides incremental
health beneﬁts beyond that derived from routine cardiovascular risk factor assessment and treatment. In addition to
diagnosing PAD in patients with exertional leg symptoms
or nonhealing wounds, the 2011 American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association PAD
Guidelines recommend screening for PAD in all patients
aged >65 years and in all patients aged >50 years with a
history of diabetes or smoking.51 As noted above, these recommendations run counter to the ﬁndings of the SVScommissioned systematic review,1 which suggests that no
clear beneﬁt is derived from screening for PAD in asymptomatic patients.
The recommendations of the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force in 2005 concluded that the harms of
screening asymptomatic adults for PAD would outweigh
any beneﬁts.52 The U.S. Preventative Services Task
Force again addressed the issue of ABI screening in its
2013 publication39 and concluded that “there is insufﬁcient evidence to determine the balance of beneﬁts and

harms of screening for PAD with the ABI to prevent
future cardiovascular disease outcomes.” The conﬂicting
recommendations and ongoing controversy demonstrate
that although asymptomatic PAD is a sentinel indicator
of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, speciﬁc treatment pathways for this large PAD subpopulation remain
poorly deﬁned.
PAD primarily results from atherosclerotic occlusion
of the arteries supplying the lower extremity. Consequently, management of asymptomatic PAD should be
directed at accepted risk factor modiﬁcation for patients
with atherosclerosis. Pharmacologic strategies with
proven beneﬁt for symptomatic PAD have been empirically applied to the treatment of the asymptomatic PAD
population. However, as noted below, certain pharmacologic interventions have failed to show beneﬁt in the
asymptomatic population, and others await veriﬁcation.
Nonetheless, accepted preventive strategies for atherosclerosis are appropriate for asymptomatic disease and
for IC.
Smoking cessation. PAD severity has been shown to
correlate to the extent of cigarette smoking.53 In a broad
sample of PAD patients, including w27% who were
asymptomatic, a community-based intervention (“stop
smoking, keep walking”) increased maximal walking distance and frequency of recreational ambulation.54

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

8S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Antiplatelet therapy. The Aspirin for Asymptomatic
Atherosclerosis Trial55 randomized 3350 patients with
asymptomatic PAD to treatment with enteric-coated aspirin
(100 mg) or placebo. During 8 years of follow-up, no difference in vascular event rates was noted. However, this trial
used an epidemiologic method of ABI determination in
which the lower of the ankle pressures was used to calculate
the ABI. Thus, the individuals in this study might not be
fully representative of the universe of PAD patients with a
greater burden of disease. At present, the beneﬁt of antiplatelet therapy for patients with asymptomatic PAD and no
other clinical cardiovascular disease is unknown.
Statin therapy. The Heart Protection Study established the protective effects of statin therapy in reducing
mortality and cardiovascular events among individuals with
PAD.56 However, asymptomatic PAD patients were not
speciﬁcally included unless they met other criteria, such as
diabetes, hypertension, or other history of clinical cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease. In addition to reducing
cardiovascular event rates, statin use has been associated with
improved lower extremity functioning.57 This improvement
was not related to improved lipid control or other confounding factors, and the association was noted in patients
with and without PAD. At present, the beneﬁt of lipidlowering therapy in patients with asymptomatic PAD who
lack other evidence of clinical cardiovascular disease (coronary, cerebral) or risk factors (diabetes, hypertension) remains unclear. Recently published treatment guidelines for
lipid-lowering therapy suggest the use of statins should be
considered in all individuals with an estimated 10-year risk of

major cardiovascular events >7.5%.58 This would seem to
include any individual with established PAD.6,50 Notably,
the recommended risk estimation algorithm does not
include evidence of PAD or the ABI value.58
Exercise and limb function. Although asymptomatic
PAD patients do not report exertional leg discomfort by deﬁnition, careful assessment reveals impaired lower extremity
function. An observational study of asymptomatic PAD patients demonstrated slower walking velocity, poorer standing
balance, and other negative functional associations, despite
correction for age, gender, smoking, and other comorbidities.59 Whether targeted physical therapy interventions can
reverse decline or improve functional performance and
quality of life (QoL) in this population remains unclear.
Surveillance of asymptomatic patients for disease
progression. In a small study of asymptomatic PAD patients, 35% of legs had developed new lower extremity arterial lesions on duplex scanning, and 26% of patients had
developed new IC #1 year after diagnosis.60 It is also
important to note that some asymptomatic PAD patients,
particularly those with diabetes, may develop CLI without
an antecedent history of claudication. The incremental
value and frequency of repeat ABI testing in asymptomatic
PAD is not established but may be useful in higher-risk
patients (eg, diabetic patients) or those with a lower
baseline ABI. Regardless of hemodynamic or imaging
ﬁndings, invasive treatments for PAD are only indicated for
those with symptoms, with few exceptions noted below
(eg, intervention for failing bypass graft or to support delivery of an indicated cardiovascular implant).

Recommendations: Management of asymptomatic disease

3.1.
3.2.
3.3.

We recommend multidisciplinary comprehensive smoking cessation interventions for patients
with asymptomatic PAD who use tobacco (repeatedly until tobacco use has stopped).
We recommend providing education about the signs and symptoms of PAD progression to
asymptomatic patients with PAD.
We recommend against invasive treatments for PAD in the absence of symptoms, regardless of
hemodynamic measures or imaging ﬁndings demonstrating PAD.

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

A

1

Ungraded

1

B

PAD, Peripheral arterial disease.
Summary of evidence: Management of asymptomatic disease

Clinical question
The effect of smoking cessation in
patients with asymptomatic PAD
Beneﬁt for serial ABI testing
(surveillance) in patients with
asymptomatic PAD
PAD, Peripheral arterial disease.

Data source

Finding

Observational studies in various
settings applicable to patients
with asymptomatic PAD
Sparse data

Smoking cessation reduces overall
mortality and morbidity in smokers
in general
No data on beneﬁts and harms of
surveillance

Quality of
evidence
A

C

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

4. NONINTERVENTIONAL MANAGEMENT OF
THE PATIENT WITH IC
As noted, IC is the most common clinical manifestation of PAD. Patients with IC may exhibit a wide range
of symptom severity and associated effect on daily function.
Moreover, concomitant conditions, such as cardiopulmonary disease, arthritis, spine disease, and obesity, can markedly limit exercise capacity in a synergistic fashion.
Therefore, the treatment of IC must be individualized
and based on a careful assessment of risk factors, compliance, and the subjective values of the patient. Of paramount importance at the time of the initial diagnosis is
patient education, both regarding the long-term implications of PAD on cardiovascular health and to allay fears
of amputation (Fig 2). Multiple studies have established
that patients with IC are at increased risk for cardiovascular
events, whereas the risk of major amputation is exceedingly
low (<1% per year).6,61 Establishing an appropriate therapeutic framework of risk reduction, lifestyle modiﬁcation,
and antiatherosclerotic medical therapies should always
precede consideration of invasive procedures for IC.
Claudication signiﬁcantly affects QoL, and this effect is
often underestimated by treating physicians. IC is associated
with severe functional impairment that can be signiﬁcantly
improved by intervention in properly selected patients. Multiple studies by McDermott et al59,62,63 have objectively documented the adverse effect of PAD and claudication on
patients’ functional status. Even in patients with mild PAD, results of multiple tests of functional impairment, such as the 6minute walk test, are signiﬁcantly worse in PAD patients
compared with those without PAD.64 In addition to reduced
functioning, severe PAD is associated with reduced survival.63
Patients in the lowest quartile of an ofﬁce-administered 6minute walk performance test exhibited signiﬁcantly increased
mortality (odds ratio [OR], 2.36).
4A. Pharmacotherapy for patients with claudication:
Risk reduction
Patients with IC carry a signiﬁcant systemic burden of
atherosclerosis and are at risk for its associated complications.
These patients should have lifelong treatment designed to
eliminate or modify known risk factors for atherosclerosis to
reduce the risk of cardiovascular complications or death. In
addition, treatment of risk factors can reduce the risk of periprocedural complications or death after any invasive treatments undertaken for PAD and may improve the patency of
interventions. Many of the recommendations for risk-factor
modiﬁcation in PAD have been extrapolated from the literature on secondary prevention in coronary artery disease.
This represents a notable gap in evidence speciﬁc to PAD
and is particularly relevant in terms of setting deﬁned treatment targets that are population-speciﬁc and disease-speciﬁc.
Smoking cessation. In observational studies, continued
smoking is associated with higher rates of amputation, death,
and myocardial infarction in patients with PAD compared with
those who have quit.65 Continued smoking has been associated with a twofold to threefold increase in the rate of lower
extremity bypass graft failure compared with nonsmokers.66,67

Conte and Pomposelli et al 9S

Dyslipidemia. Treatment of dyslipidemia with statins
reduces the likelihood of adverse cardiovascular events in
patients with atherosclerosis.56,68-70 Patients with PAD
were designated as high or very high risk for adverse cardiovascular events by the National Cholesterol Educational
Program Adult Treatment Panel #3 and are advised to
undergo treatment to lower low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol to <100 mg/dL or to <70 mg/dL in very
high-risk individuals.71 As noted above, the most recent
guidelines on lipid therapy focus on the estimation of 10year cardiovascular risk rather than speciﬁc lipid levels.
Although PAD per se is not included in the suggested
risk estimation algorithm, historical data suggest that all
PAD patients would meet the suggested threshold of a
7.5% 10-year risk. It is noteworthy that speciﬁc low-density
lipoprotein targets have never been validated in the PAD population, who commonly demonstrate a phenotype of dyslipidemia (low high-density lipoprotein, elevated triglycerides),
which contrasts with typical patients with isolated coronary
artery disease. Statin therapy has also improved pain-free
walking time in small studies of patients with IC.72,73 The
mechanism of this action is unknown. However, in the Claudication: Exercise vs Endoluminal Revascularization
(CLEVER) trial,74 conventional medical therapy, including
statins for atherosclerosis, did not signiﬁcantly improve
walking ability or symptoms in patients with IC compared
with supervised exercise or stenting (Section 5C).
Diabetes mellitus. The prevalence of PAD in patients
with diabetes mellitus is estimated to be 29%.75 Although it
is unknown whether aggressive treatment to optimize
serum glucose levels decreases the likelihood of adverse
cardiovascular events in these patients, atherosclerosis tends
to be more aggressive, and amputation rates in diabetic
patients with atherosclerosis of the lower extremity are ﬁve
to 10 times higher than in nondiabetic counterparts. Sensory neuropathy and increased susceptibility to infection
contribute to the elevated rate of amputation.9
Hypertension. There is a strong association between
hypertension and cardiovascular disease, including PAD;
however, the relative risk is less for hypertension than for
smoking or diabetes. Treatment of hypertension is indicated
to reduce cardiovascular events, including congestive heart
failure, stroke, and death.76 There is no evidence that badrenergic blockers worsen the symptoms of IC.77
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) reduce
the risk of death and nonfatal cardiac events in patients with
left ventricular dysfunction.78,79 In the Heart Outcomes
Prevention Evaluation study, 4051 patients with PAD treated
with ramipril had a 25% reduction of cardiac events.80 This is
notable, particularly in the context of a recent trial examining
the effects of ramipril on walking performance (Section 4B).
Antiplatelet and antithrombotic agents. Numerous
studies have demonstrated the beneﬁt of antiplatelet therapy,
especially aspirin, in doses of 75 to 325 mg/d in reducing
rates of myocardial infarction, stroke, and vascular-related
deaths in individuals with symptomatic lower extremity
atherosclerosis.81 The American Heart Association practice
guidelines for lower extremity ischemia rated this treatment

10S Conte and Pomposelli et al

recommendation class I-A.43 In the 6452 patients with PAD
in the Clopidogrel vs Aspirin In Patients At Risk of Ischaemic
Events trial, clopidogrel reduced the myocardial infarction,
stroke, or vascular death rate by 23.8% more than aspirin
alone.82 Although a single study demonstrated that combination aspirin and clopidogrel therapy was associated with a
20% relative risk reduction for myocardial infarction, cardiovascular death, or stroke,83 there is no evidence to date
that combination therapy is a more effective treatment for
PAD than a single agent, and bleeding risks are increased.84
Warfarin has been demonstrated to reduce myocardial
infarction or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease,
although at the cost of a 4.5-fold increase in major
bleeding.85,86 There is no evidence that warfarin decreases
the likelihood of adverse events related to PAD alone. Only
one prospective trial exists comparing the effect of warfarin
vs aspirin on graft patency. A similar number of graft occlusions occurred in both study cohorts, with a twofold
increased risk of major bleeding in the warfarin cohort.85
Homocysteine-lowering drugs. Approximately 30% of
patients with known PAD have elevated serum levels of homocysteine compared with 1% in the general population.9 Folic
acid and cobalamin (vitamin B12) have been found to reduce
serum homocysteine levels by 25% and 7%, respectively, in
clinical trials. However, there are no data demonstrating that
reducing homocysteine serum levels decreases the likelihood
of adverse cardiovascular events in patients with PAD,87
although clinical trials are ongoing.87-89 Pending the outcomes of prospective trials, treating hyperhomocysteinemia
with folic acid to reduce serum levels to <10 mmol/L is
generally safe and well tolerated but is of no proven beneﬁt.
4B. Pharmacotherapy for patients with IC to improve
leg function
Medical management of IC is aimed at symptom relief
(Table II) and slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease. A number of drugs have been evaluated for use in patients with IC, but in the United States, there are currently
only two Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved
medicationsdcilostazol and pentoxifylline.90-92 Of note, a
recent review by the Royal College of Physicians in the
United Kingdom identiﬁes naftidrofuryldwidely available
in Europe but not FDA-approved in the United Statesdas
the drug of choice over both cilostazol and pentoxifylline
in the medical management of symptomatic PAD.93,94
Pentoxifylline was the ﬁrst drug approved by the FDA for
IC in 1984. By reducing blood viscosity and retarding platelet
aggregation, pentoxifylline use results in improved blood ﬂow
and enhanced tissue oxygenation in affected areas. Porter
et al91 revealed its effectiveness compared with placebo in a
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted at seven centers with use in outpatients. Pentoxifylline increased pain-free
and maximal walking distance compared with placebo. Despite
its signiﬁcant ﬁndings in the Porter trial, clinical use of the drug
has been limited due to the difﬁculty in identifying the IC
patient who will predictably beneﬁt.95 Signiﬁcant positive effects on the ABI at rest or after exercise have not been appreciated in multiple trials.90,95,96 Although it has modest effect,

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

pentoxifylline is well tolerated, safe, and relatively inexpensive.
Dosing begins at 400-mg tablets three times per day and can
be titrated up to 1800 mg/d. Side effects of nausea, headache,
drowsiness, and anorexia have precluded long-term use in
some patients. Hypertension can be exacerbated with use.
Cilostazol is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor that suppresses platelet aggregation and is also a direct vasodilator.
Patients can notice improvement in maximal and pain-free
walking distance in as short as 4 weeks.92 Other phosphodiesterase inhibitors have been noted to increase mortality in
patients with advanced heart failure; thus, cilostazol is contraindicated in patients with any level of heart failure. In addition to improving blood ﬂow to the limb, there is evidence
that cilostazol and pentoxifylline prevent lipid accumulation,
oxidation, and coagulation (ie, preventing further progression of atherosclerosis). However, epidemiologic evidence
suggests that many patients do not receive meaningful symptom relief with medical therapy alone. This is likely a result of
the limited ability of drugs to enhance muscle function or
limb blood ﬂow to the levels observed with therapies such
as exercise training or invasive revascularization.
The beneﬁts of cilostazol in the treatment of IC were
compared with those of pentoxifylline in a randomized
controlled trial (RCT) performed by Dawson et al.96 They
found that cilostazol therapy signiﬁcantly increased maximal
walking distance by 107 m (54% increase) compared with a
64-m improvement in the pentoxifylline group (30% increase). There was no difference in maximal walking distance
improvement between the pentoxifylline and placebo groups.
Regarding the durability of the effect, a recent pooled analysis
of seven RCTs demonstrated a signiﬁcant beneﬁt in maximal
walking distance compared with placebo at 6 months.92
The ACEI ramipril is used in the treatment of hypertension and may also have beneﬁcial effects in patients
with PAD and IC. In the Heart Outcomes Protection Evaluation study,97 treatment with ramipril reduced cardiovascular events and mortality even in patients without
hypertension. Therefore, ramipril should be considered as a
ﬁrst-line choice for hypertension treatment in PAD patients,
although it should be used with caution in the presence of
renal artery stenosis. In a recent double-blind, placebocontrolled RCT, ramipril (10 mg/d for 24 weeks) was
associated with signiﬁcant improvements in pain-free and
maximal treadmill walking times and in measures of physical
function.98 Given the modest size of this trial (212 patients)
in three hospitals in Australia, further multicenter studies
with longer follow-up are needed to support the routine
use of ramipril for IC. This recommendation was stricken
post-publication by the guidelines committee based on
further review of the evidence and is no longer valid (see
Supplementary Material on page 41S.e1, online only).
The vasoactive drug naftidrofuryl oxalate works by
enhancing aerobic glycolysis and oxygen consumption in
ischemic tissues, is commonly used in Europe, but is not
currently approved in the United States. It has been shown
to increase pain-free walking distance.93,94
Levocarnitine increases energy substrate for skeletal
muscle metabolism. In clinical trials, a modest improvement

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 11S

Recommendations: Medical treatment for intermittent claudication (IC)

4.1.
4.2.
4.3.
4.4.

4.5.
4.6.
4.7.
4.8.
4.9.
4.10.

We recommend multidisciplinary comprehensive smoking cessation interventions for patients
with IC (repeatedly until tobacco use has stopped).
We recommend statin therapy in patients with symptomatic PAD.
We recommend optimizing diabetes control (hemoglobin A1c goal of <7.0%) in patients with
IC if this goal can be achieved without hypoglycemia.
We recommend the use of indicated b-blockers (eg, for hypertension, cardiac indications) in
patients with IC. There is no evidence supporting concerns about worsening claudication
symptoms.
In patients with IC due to atherosclerosis, we recommend antiplatelet therapy with aspirin
(75-325 mg daily).
We recommend clopidogrel in doses of 75 mg daily as an effective alternative to aspirin for
antiplatelet therapy in patients with IC.
In patients with IC due to atherosclerosis, we suggest against using warfarin for the sole
indication of reducing the risk of adverse cardiovascular events or vascular occlusions.
We suggest against using folic acid and vitamin B12 supplements as a treatment of IC.
In patients with IC who do not have congestive heart failure, we suggest a 3-month trial of
cilostazol (100 mg twice daily) to improve pain-free walking.
In patients with IC who cannot tolerate or have contraindications for cilostazol, we suggest a
trial of pentoxifylline (400 mg thrice daily) to improve pain-free walking.

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

A

1
1

A
B

1

B

1

A

1

B

1

C

2
2

C
A

2

B

ACEI, Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor; PAD, peripheral arterial disease.
A recommendation (4.11) for using ramipril in IC was originally made but subsequently deleted (see Supplementary
Material on page 41S.e1, online only).

in maximal and pain-free walking distance has been seen
compared with placebo; however, no beneﬁt has been noted
over exercise alone.99,100 It is available in the United States
over-the-counter as a dietary supplement.
4C. Exercise therapy for claudication
Exercise therapy has been a cornerstone in the management of IC for >40 years and has been the subject of case
series, randomized trials, and meta-analyses (Table II). Exercise programs for patients with IC have been found to increase the distance to onset of claudication and increase the
distance to maximum claudication pain. A meta-analysis of
1200 patients determined exercise therapy, compared with
placebo or usual care, provides an overall improvement in
walking ability of 50% to 200%, with improvements maintained for up to 2 years.101 The American Heart Association for many years has considered the quality of the
evidence supporting exercise therapy in the treatment
of IC to be sufﬁciently robust to merit a Level I
recommendation.43
Mechanism of beneﬁt of exercise therapy. Exercise
therapy is in essence athletic training, albeit on a much
more limited scale than that generally associated with
competitive athletes. Exercise therapy alone has been associated with improvement in walking biomechanics but not an
improvement in resting ABI.102 An underlying biochemical
mechanism of beneﬁt is therefore highly likely, but the
precise mechanisms are unknown. Among the potential

biomechanical or biochemical mechanisms of beneﬁt of
exercise therapy include are enlargement of existing collateral vessels, exercise induced angiogenesis, enhanced nitric
oxide (NO) endothelium-dependent vasodilatation of the
microcirculation, improved bioenergetics of skeletal muscle,
and improved hemorrheology.
Requirements for exercise therapy. Participation in
an exercise program for IC ﬁrst requires an objective
diagnosis, with vascular laboratory testing conﬁrming
the presence of PAD. Such testing may include measurement of the ABI, exercise treadmill testing or peripheral
arterial duplex scanning, or both. Initiation of risk factor
modiﬁcation for atherosclerotic risk factors is a component of any exercise program. At a minimum, therapy
with aspirin and statin medications should also be considered as pharmacologic adjuncts to any exercise program
for IC (see above). Patients must be screened for sufﬁcient cardiopulmonary reserve to tolerate an exercise
program.103
Barriers to exercise therapy. There are both patientspeciﬁc and system-speciﬁc barriers to participation in exercise programs for IC. The exact magnitude of effect of these
barriers is unknown, but in patients screened for participation in exercise research studies, far less than one-half are
ever enrolled in the study. Perhaps the most important
patient-speciﬁc limitations are compliance with an exercise
program and that many patients with IC have medical
comorbidities (angina, congestive heart failure, chronic

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

12S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Summary of evidence: Medical treatment for intermittent claudication (IC)
Clinical question

Data source

Finding

Quality of evidence

The effect of smoking
cessation in patients
with IC
The effect of lipid
lowering therapy
on mortality and
morbidity of
patients with IC

Observational studies in
various settings applicable
to patients with IC
Meta-analysis of 18 RCTs of
lipid-lowering therapy in
patients with PAD of the
lower limb. Additional
indirect evidence about
beneﬁt of statin therapy in
secondary cardiovascular
disease prevention is also
relevant

A

The effect of diabetes
control on mortality
and morbidity of
patients with IC
The effect of antiplatelet
therapy on mortality
and morbidity of
patients with IC

No direct trials in PAD;
indirect evidence
considered

Smoking cessation reduces overall
mortality and morbidity in smokers
in general
Lipid-lowering therapy had no
statistically signiﬁcant effect on
mortality (OR, 0.86; 95% CI,
0.49-1.50) or total cardiovascular
events (OR, 0.8; 95% CI, 0.59-1.09)
but improved total walking distance
(152 m; 95% CI, 32.11-271.88 m) and
pain-free walking distance (89.76 m;
95% CI, 30.05-149.47 m), with no
signiﬁcant effect on ABI104
Tight glycemic control in patients with
type 2 diabetes reduced amputation
(RR, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.45-0.94)105

The effect of cilostazol
and pentoxifylline on
walking performance
in patients with IC

Meta-analysis106 of 12 trials
in patients with IC

Meta-analysis107 of 26 trials
in patients with IC

Antiplatelet agents reduced all cause
(RR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.60-0.98),
cardiovascular mortality (RR, 0.54;
95% CI, 0.32-0.93), and the risk of
needing revascularization (RR, 0.65;
95% CI, 0.43-0.97). Major bleeding
estimate was imprecise (RR, 1.73; 95%
CI, 0.51-5.83). In one trial,
clopidogrel had a modest advantage
over aspirin
Compared with placebo, maximal
walking distance for cilostazol and
pentoxifylline increased by 25% (11
to 40 m) and 11% (e1 to 24 m),
respectively. Pain-free walking distance
increased by 13% and 9%, respectively

A-B

B

A

A for cilostazol
and B for
pentoxifylline
(imprecision)

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CI, conﬁdence interval; OR, odds ratio; PAD, peripheral arterial disease; RCT, randomized
controlled trial; RR, risk ratio.
The effect of ramipril on walking performance in patients with IC was originally included but has subsequently been deleted
(see Supplementary Material on page 41S.e1, online only).

obstructive pulmonary disease, or arthritis) that may preclude them from participating. Patients should therefore be
evaluated to ensure their medical comorbidities are sufﬁciently well controlled to allow safe participation in such a
program. Many of the same factors that may render a patient
a poor candidate for exercise therapy should be considered
as relative contraindications to invasive treatments for IC
because they negatively affect the risk-to-beneﬁt analysis.
Thus, an initial attempt at exercise therapy is an appropriate
consideration for most patients with IC before revascularization. Although patients with severe hemodynamic
compromise may improve with an exercise program, there
are clearly patients with such advanced disease and disability
that meaningful participation in an exercise program is not

realistic. In addition, although supervised exercise programs
are the most effective and well-studied form of exercise
therapy, many U.S. insurance carriers do not currently
provide beneﬁts for participation in such programs. At present, this represents a major obstacle to the use of exercise
therapy for IC in clinical practice.
Components of an exercise program for IC. Exercise programs for IC potentially consist of various forms
of lower extremity exercise alone or in combination
(walking, running, cycling, etc) or upper extremity exercise, or both, and vary with respect to intervals of training,
duration of training, intensity of training, and claudication
end points. Programs may be self-directed, supervised, of
varying intensity, institution based or home based, and

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

may be combined with medical or interventional therapies, or both. A classic meta-analysis of the potential
components of an exercise program for IC determined the
greatest effects were achieved with a >6 month walking
program that had at least three sessions per week of durations >30 minutes per session that used nearly maximal
claudication pain as the claudication pain end point.
Claudication pain end point, mode of exercise (walking),
and duration of the exercise program were all independent predictors of increased walking distance with an
exercise program.108
Type, duration, and intensity of exercise. The superiority of walking over other forms of lower extremity exercise, including cycling, stair climbing, tiptoe raises, dancing,
and static and dynamic leg exercises, has been demonstrated.111 Moreover, neither lower extremity strength
training nor upper extremity aerobic exercise appear to
augment responses to a walking exercise program.109 Lowintensity exercise appears as equally effective as highintensity exercise in improving claudication parameters,
provided the duration of exercise is extended in the lowintensity group to achieve similar levels of exercise exposure.110 However, use claudication end points of nearly
maximal pain vs onset of pain does appear to produce
greater changes in distance to onset and maximal pain.108
Data supporting nearly maximal pain during exercise are
derived from time to maximal claudication pain achieved
with treadmill testing and may actually underestimate beneﬁts under the submaximal conditions more characteristic of
everyday community walking.111
The time length of exercise training sessions as well as
its frequency and duration are important in achieving
maximal beneﬁt with training sessions: >30 minutes per
session provides greater beneﬁt than sessions for
<30 minutes, scheduling more than three sessions per
week is more effective than <3 sessions per week, and program lengths of >26 weeks are more effective than
programs <26 weeks.108
Exercise programs can vary from completely unstructured programs based on patient instruction done on their
own accord to programs that are supervised and institutionally based. All exercise programs depend on patient compliance, so it is not surprising that structured, supervised
exercise programs demonstrate superior outcomes to unsupervised programs (home exercise programs) and are therefore the preferred strategy for exercise therapy when possible.
As previously stated, reimbursement for structured exercise programs in the United States is currently lacking,
making self-directed home programs an important alternative for many patients. Home exercise programs may be
able to be modiﬁed or supplemented to improve their
effectiveness. Patterson et al112 determined a 12-week
home-based exercise program supplemented with a lecture
program and weekly exercise instruction resulted in
improvement at 6 months in initial claudication time and
in maximal walking time. The improvements were statistically signiﬁcant compared with baseline values, although

Conte and Pomposelli et al 13S

not as great as those achieved with supervised exercise.
Mouser et al113 found that patients completing a homebased exercise program demonstrated improvement in
the initial claudication distance and absolute claudication
distances, although less than what would be expected in
a supervised program. Unfortunately, 47% of those not
completing the program dropped out by not returning
for their follow-up appointment.
Providing patients with regular feedback on their progress and results may improve compliance with home-based
programs. In one study, providing patients engaged in a
home-based 12-week exercise program of intermittent
walking to nearly maximal claudication pain with a step
monitor to quantify their progress and results achieved
the same level of patient adherence and increased claudication time and peak walking time to a similar degree as a supervised exercise program.114
Supplements to an exercise program. All exercise
programs for treatment of IC, as noted above, should
include atherosclerotic risk factor modiﬁcation and best
medical management. Interventional therapies, percutaneous or open, can also be viewed as a supplement to an
exercise program. Conversely, exercise therapy can be
used as a supplement to interventional procedures.
Angioplasty and stenting has been studied as an alternative to exercise therapy for IC and as a supplement to exercise therapy for IC. A systematic review examined the
efﬁcacy of catheter-based techniques as an alternative or
as an adjunct to exercise therapy for treatment of IC.115
The end points evaluated in the trials reviewed were mostly
walking distances and QoL parameters. The authors
concluded that the effectiveness of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and supervised exercise training were
generally equivalent; however, despite similar end points in
the trials, pooling of data was impossible due to marked
heterogeneity of the data and only one of the nine randomized trials was of high quality.
The 6-month results of the CLEVER trial were reported in 2012.74 The CLEVER trial randomized 111 patients with IC due to aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD) to
one of three treatments: optimal medical care, optimal
medical care plus supervised exercise, or optimal medical
care plus stent revascularization. The primary end point
was peak walking time on a graded treadmill test at
6 months. Secondary end points included assessment of
QoL and free-living step activity.
At 6 months, changes in peak walking time were
greatest with supervised exercise therapy combined
with optimal medical care compared with both optimal
medical care alone and stenting therapy combined with
optimal medical care. Stenting provided greater
improvement in peak walking time than optimal medical
care alone. Measures of improvement in QoL were both
greater for supervised exercise and stenting therapy
compared with optimal medical care alone, but improvement in QoL parameters was greater for stent revascularization than supervised exercise. A conceptually similar

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

14S Conte and Pomposelli et al

trial, Supervised Exercise Therapy or Immediate PTA for
Intermittent Claudication in patients with an Iliac Artery
Obstruction (SUPER Study), is planned for 15 Dutch
centers with enrollment of 400 patients (ClinicalTrials.
gov NCT01385774). Primary end points at 1 year are
maximal walking distance and measures of healthrelated QoL.116
The costs of interventional treatment appear to be
higher than those for supervised exercise therapy.117 Overall, at this point, there are no compelling data to favor
endovascular interventions over supervised exercise for
treatment of IC in patients who are candidates for both
forms of therapy.
Given its efﬁcacy as primary therapy, it is not surprising
that a number of small trials have suggested the beneﬁt of
exercise as an adjunct to percutaneous or open interventions performed for treatment of IC. A randomized trial
of 70 patients treated with a percutaneous intervention primarily but not exclusively for AIOD demonstrated the
addition of supervised exercise therapy to a percutaneous

intervention improved absolute claudication distance at
6 months compared with percutaneous intervention
alone.118 Exercise therapy may also be beneﬁcial after
bypass surgery. In a small randomized study of 14 patients
with IC comparing infrainguinal lower extremity bypass
alone vs bypass with the addition of supervised exercise,
the investigators found a signiﬁcant increase in maximal
walking distance with the addition of exercise to bypass.119
In an older study, 75 patients with IC were randomly allocated treatment to surgical reconstruction alone, surgical
reconstruction with the addition of supervised training,
and supervised exercise alone. The surgical reconstructions
were relatively evenly split between aortoiliac reconstructions and infrainguinal reconstructions, with three multilevel reconstructions and 23 bilateral reconstructions.
Symptom-free and maximal walking distance were
improved in all three groups, with the greatest improvement in the patients treated with the combination of
open surgical reconstruction and supervised exercise
therapy.120

Recommendations: Exercise therapy

4.12.

4.13.

4.14.
4.15.

We recommend as ﬁrst-line therapy a supervised exercise program consisting of
walking a minimum of three times per week (30-60 min/session) for at least
12 weeks to all suitable patients with IC.
We recommend home-based exercise, with a goal of at least 30 minutes of walking
three to ﬁve times per week when a supervised exercise program is unavailable or for
long-term beneﬁt after a supervised exercise program is completed.
In patients who have undergone revascularization therapy for IC, we recommend
exercise (either supervised or home based) for adjunctive functional beneﬁts.
We recommend that patients with IC be followed up annually to assess compliance
with lifestyle measures (smoking cessation, exercise) and medical therapies as well as
to determine if there is evidence of progression in symptoms or signs of PAD. Yearly
ABI testing may be of value to provide objective evidence of disease progression.

Grade

Level of evidence

1

A

1

B

1

B

1

C

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; IC, intermittent claudication; PAD, peripheral arterial disease.

Summary of evidence: Exercise therapy
Clinical question

Data source

Finding

The effect of exercise on
Meta-analysis of 22 Compared with usual care or placebo, exercise
walking performance
RCTs at low risk
signiﬁcantly improved maximal walking time:
and morbidity in patients
of bias101
5.12 minutes (95% CI, 4.51-5.72 minutes),
with IC
walking ability (50% to 200%), pain-free walking
distance and maximal walking distance, but not
the ABI, mortality, or amputation
Meta-analysis
Supervised exercise therapy showed statistically
The effect of supervised
of 14 RCTs121
signiﬁcant improvement in maximal treadmill
vs nonsupervised exercise
walking distance compared with nonsupervised
on walking performance
exercise therapy regimens (an increase in walking
and morbidity in patients
distance of w180 m)
with IC

Quality of evidence
A

A

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; CI, conﬁdence interval; IC, intermittent claudication; RCT, randomized controlled trial.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 15S

Table II. Summary of noninterventional treatments for intermittent claudication (IC)
References (ﬁrst author)
Leng126
Gardner108
Stewart266
Porter,91 Salhiyyah95
Dawson,96
Regensteiner127
Mondillo73

Modality
Exercise
Pentoxifylline
Cilostazol
Statins

Treatment
duration, months

Outcome measures (functional, hemodynamic, QoL)

FU duration,
months

3-15
1-4
1-15
6
6

Maximal walking time, pain-free walking distance
Maximal walking time, pain-free walking distance
Maximal walking time, pain-free walking distance
Pain-free walking distance, maximal walking distance
Maximal walking distance, QoL

3-15
3-15
3-15
6
6

6

Pain-free walking time, maximal walking time

6

FU, Follow-up; QoL, quality of life.
The effect of ramipril on walking performance in patients with IC was originally included but has subsequently been deleted (see Supplementary Material on
page 41S.e1, online only).

5. THE ROLE OF REVASCULARIZATION FOR IC
Patient selection for intervention
The natural history of IC is usually one of a slowly progressive decline in the ability to walk a distance before the
onset of pain. With intensive medical management, <5% of
patients will develop symptoms of advanced ischemia, such
as ischemic rest pain and tissue loss, or will ultimately
require amputation.9,122 The relatively benign natural history of claudication must be weighed against the effect of
the loss of ambulatory function on activities of daily living,
occupation, and QoL. Consequently, the decision to intervene should be individualized, taking into consideration
these factors as well as the clinical response to noninterventional therapies, and weighing the potential risks against
the expected functional beneﬁts for the patient. This initial
consideration of candidacy is largely independent of technical factors, such as the anatomy of the occlusive lesions
or the type of procedure, either endovascular or surgical,
that would be required. Although most patients with IC
who adhere to risk factor modiﬁcation and conservative
management decline slowly or generally maintain their current level of function, a signiﬁcant minority (20%-30%) will
develop increased disability over time that warrants intervention. Interventions for claudication are done to improve
function in the setting of signiﬁcant ongoing disability in an
active person. In this context, it is important to recognize
that some patients seek treatment based solely on the fear
that IC will inexorably lead to amputation. Reassurance
about the expected natural history of claudication to alleviate their anxiety may be all that is required in such patients and should always predate a discussion of invasive
treatment. Performing prophylactic interventions in patients with IC that is minimally symptomatic or well tolerated has no beneﬁt, may cause harm, and is never indicated.
It is also important to recognize that the degree of
disability in claudication correlates relatively poorly with both
physiologic testing and anatomic ﬁndings. It has been well
established that the resting ABI, for example, is a modest predictor of the degree of walking impairment by self-reported
symptoms or objective testing.123,124 Similarly the burden of
disease by anatomic imaging correlates poorly with function
in everyday life. This may relate to nonvascular causes of

walking impairment, the adaptation of each individual to the
disability, and the variable contributions of collaterals. Justiﬁcation for interventions for IC is not based primarily on physiologic (eg, ABI) measures or on anatomic ﬁndings but rather
on the severity of functional impairment speciﬁc to arterial
insufﬁciency and its perceived effect on QoL, supported by
objective evidence of signiﬁcant disease. Promoting intervention in an individual with mild disability based on physiologic
or imaging studies is strongly discouraged.
Determining the degree of functional impairment from IC
is not straightforward and varies from patient to patient.125
This should be assessed from the patient’s perspective and
not based on the biases or value judgments of the physician.
A patient’s perception of the degree of impairment may vary
according to his or her baseline level of physical activity; that
is, moderate claudication may be perceived as severely
disabling in a very active patient, whereas more severe claudication may be well tolerated in a more sedentary individual. IC
causing loss of the ability to perform an occupation or that impairs basic activities of daily living and/or mobility often justiﬁes invasive treatment. Equally important are QoL issues
such as the need to provide care to a spouse or family member
or loss of the ability to engage in recreational or social activities.
On the other hand, loss of ambulatory function may be
multifactorial when arthritis of weight-bearing joints or the
lumbar spine is also present. Treatment of PAD alone may
not result in improved ambulatory function in patients so
afﬂicted. Similarly, the treatment of IC may provide no beneﬁt
to patients with signiﬁcant ischemic or structural heart disease,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, morbid obesity, stroke,
etc. In addition, such patients present a greater risk of complications or death, potentially outweighing the beneﬁt of treatment, especially when surgery is required.
Numerous studies have demonstrated the efﬁcacy of
both endovascular and surgical therapy for the relief of
symptoms of claudication by reducing pain and improving
walking distance as well as gains in QoL and ambulatory
function. Both forms of revascularization appear superior
to medical therapy for limb-related outcomes, although
not necessarily to supervised exercise training.74,108,126
Pharmacologic treatment with cilostazol is a modestly
effective and less expensive alternative to invasive treatment127 and may be appropriate in some patients. In

16S Conte and Pomposelli et al

most claudicant patients being evaluated initially, a 6month trial of smoking cessation, risk factor modiﬁcation,
exercise, or cilostazol, or a combination, should be initiated
before any invasive therapy.
Surgical and endovascular therapy (EVT) are likely to
be similar in efﬁcacy overall, although the quality of supporting evidence comparing the two is poor and the likelihood of durable clinical success different, especially for
extensive disease, more distal disease, and disease involving
the common or deep femoral arteries where surgery is usually preferred. Speciﬁc factors predicting treatment success
should be carefully considered in each individual before
determining the optimal strategy.
Anatomic patency and hemodynamic improvement are
considered necessary (although not sufﬁcient) for clinical
success of revascularization in IC. In the setting of IC,
where the limb is not threatened and the natural history
is generally benign, durable beneﬁt at low risk is required
to justify invasive vascular treatment. The anatomic spectrum of disease in IC is broad, and has a major impact
on both technical success and durability of vascular interventions. In selecting a revascularization strategy for
patients with IC, the expected durability in the circumstance at hand should be carefully considered. We suggest
that a minimal effectiveness threshold for invasive therapy
in IC be a >50% likelihood of sustained clinical improvement for at least 2 years. Freedom from hemodynamically
signiﬁcant restenosis in the treated limb is considered a prerequisite for this goal.
Because anatomic durability is generally inferior for
infrainguinal vs aortoiliac procedures and for bilateral vs unilateral infrainguinal interventions, most experienced clinicians have a higher treatment threshold for IC in these
settings. In bilateral disease, treating physicians should
consider the probability of overall efﬁcacy as the product of
expected outcomes in each limb, because functional gains
are unlikely if success is achieved and maintained in one
limb only. Similarly, as new data are published demonstrating
the expected patency outcomes of evolving technologies in
various anatomic and clinical settings, this suggested benchmark should be carefully considered before applying such
strategies to everyday practice in claudicant patients.
Patient-centered outcomes data are sorely needed to better
deﬁne functional gains, symptom relief, and patient perceptions on the relative trade-offs (eg, durability of improvement
vs need for repeat interventions) to better enable shared decision making in the invasive treatment of IC. The concept
of a minimal clinically important difference has been developed for other chronic diseases to increase the relevance of
study end points to patients and is needed in this ﬁeld.128
Anatomic selection factors: Imaging
Once the decision has been made to consider invasive
treatment, patients should undergo imaging studies to
determine the arterial anatomy, the extent of disease,
and whether they are best treated with EVT or open surgical therapy. This enables a more comprehensive discussion about risks, beneﬁts, and durability trade-offs for

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

various treatment options. Currently used imaging modalities include CTA,129,130 MRA,131 duplex ultrasound
imaging,132 and catheter angiography. Although all modalities may provide excellent imaging of the arterial circulation, each has its own unique set of advantages and
disadvantages and may vary in quality and availability
from institution to institution. Consequently, the modality
of choice varies widely depending on clinical practice.
There is insufﬁcient evidence at present to deﬁne the
most efﬁcient, cost-effective strategy for arterial imaging
in this population.
Catheter arteriography represents the gold standard
due to superior image resolution and the unique ability
of being able to perform a diagnostic study and EVT at
the same time. However, catheter arteriography is invasive
and may be complicated by contrast nephropathy, allergic
reactions, and access-site events.
Modern, multislice spiral CT scans are noninvasive and
provide image resolution of nearly the same quality as conventional arteriography. Moreover, the imaging data set
can be reconﬁgured into different formats, including axial,
coronal, sagittal, and three-dimensional images. However,
CTA requires a large dose of intravenous contrast and is
subject to artifact degradation due to calciﬁcation.
MRA has poorer resolution than angiography or CTA,
but its images are not degraded by calcium, and like CTA,
is noninvasive. Image quality is enhanced by the use of gadolinium; however, its use is contraindicated in patients with
signiﬁcant renal impairment due to the potential risk of
causing nephrogenic systemic ﬁbrosis. In addition, MRA
cannot be used in patients with pacemakers and a variety
of other implanted medical devices.
Duplex ultrasound arterial examination is most
commonly used as a screening modality to conﬁrm the diagnosis and to determine the severity of disease both before
and after treatment. It is occasionally used as a primary imaging modality during EVT, principally in the setting of isolated focal disease in the superﬁcial femoral artery (SFA).133
For patients with severe infrainguinal disease, assessment
of available vein conduit is another important element in the
decision process, given the superiority of good-quality
saphenous vein for femoropopliteal (FP) bypass. Ultrasound
vein mapping is therefore recommended as part of the preoperative evaluation of patients who are being considered as
potential open bypass candidates (see below).
Aortoiliac occlusive disease
AIOD, or inﬂow disease, most commonly leads to
buttock and thigh claudication. In men, bilateral iliac artery
involvement or occlusion of the internal iliac arteries may be
a cause of vasculogenic erectile dysfunction. With continued
walking, it is not uncommon for patients with AIOD to also
develop claudication in the calf muscles. With bilateral disease, symptoms can be quite severe and disabling due to
the large number of muscle groups being affected.
Invasive treatments for AIOD are performed to provide symptom relief and functional improvements. The
one scenario where treatment of asymptomatic AIOD

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 17S

Recommendations: General considerations on invasive treatment for intermittent claudication (IC)

5.1.

5.2.

We recommend EVT or surgical treatment of IC for patients with signiﬁcant functional or
lifestyle-limiting disability when there is a reasonable likelihood of symptomatic improvement
with treatment, when pharmacologic or exercise therapy, or both, have failed, and when the
beneﬁts of treatment outweigh the potential risks.
We recommend an individualized approach to select an invasive treatment for IC. The modality
offered should provide a reasonable likelihood of sustained beneﬁt to the patient (>50%
likelihood of clinical efﬁcacy for at least 2 years). For revascularization, anatomic patency
(freedom from hemodynamically signiﬁcant restenosis) is considered a prerequisite for sustained
efﬁcacy.

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

B

1

C

EVT, Endovascular therapy.
may be justiﬁed is to provide vascular access for another
indicated cardiovascular implant (eg, thoracic endovascular
aortic repair, endovascular aneurysm repair, transcatheter
aortic valve replacement, mechanical circulatory support).
Surgical options for AIOD include direct aortic reconstructions (aortofemoral bypass [AFB], aortoiliac bypass,
aortoiliac endarterectomy), which have proven to be
most durable but also have signiﬁcant morbidity and mortality. In patients with suitable anatomy or those deemed to
be at high risk for aortic surgery, or both, extra-anatomic
bypasses (axillary-femoral [AxFB], iliac-femoral [IFB],
femoral-femoral bypass [FFB]) are less morbid alternatives
but are also less durable.
A tremendous paradigm shift has occurred in the last two
decades in the treatment of AIOD.134 Although intersocietal
guidelines previously recommended endovascular procedures as primary treatment for more focal disease and traditional surgery for more diffuse disease,9,135 improvements in
technology and endovascular techniques have resulted in
EVT replacing open surgical bypass as a primary treatment
for both focal and advanced AIOD in many cases. For iliac
angioplasty using stents, long-term results compare favorably
with open surgery.135-139 Other techniques, including devices for crossing long-segment total occlusions,140 stent
grafts,141,142 and hybrid procedures143,144 combining iliac
stenting with femoral endarterectomy or with FFB are alternatives to aortofemoral surgical reconstructions in appropriate patients with suitable anatomy. Open surgery is
generally now reserved for patients with such extensive disease that EVT is impossible or ill advised, in patients with severe disease and associated aortic aneurysms, and in those
with failed endovascular interventions (Table III).
5A. Aortoiliac revascularization: Catheter-based
interventions
Aortic disease. Although open surgical reconstruction
for aortic occlusive disease is considered the gold standard,145,146 there is no question the incidence of aortic and
iliac interventions is increasing, and interventional therapies
have become more commonly used in treating this condition.134 There are limited data providing information

regarding the use of interventional therapy for treatment of
aortic occlusive disease. Although initial information reported
the use of angioplasty as a method of dealing with aortic
occlusive disease,147 stenting is the most commonly used
approach in this vascular bed. Primary technical success rates
for intervention vary from 90% to 100%, with 1-year primary
patency rates from 75% to 100% and 4-year primary patency
rates of 60% to 80%. Secondary patency can usually be maintained with repeat percutaneous interventional therapy, with
1-year and 5-year secondary patency noted to be 90% to 100%
and 60% to 100%, respectively.148-150
Percutaneous approaches can be achieved through a
femoral or brachial approach or combinations of the two approaches. Stent types used include balloon-expandable and
self-expanding stents,151 with or without covering. The choice
of stent used relates to the type of disease and size of stent available. More calciﬁc disease will usually require greater resistance
to crush, which is achieved with balloon-expandable stents,
whereas self-expanding stents are more readily available in
slightly larger diameters. Few comparative data are available
for assessing outcomes of these varied stent types. Covered
stent placement in the aorta has few data on which to base
any speciﬁc recommendations regarding use.152
Stents should be sized appropriately to the native aorta,
with consideration given for the tissue displaced (especially
calciﬁc disease). This may necessitate undersizing the stent relative to the diameter of the native normal-caliber aorta to reduce
the risk of rupture, which has been reported with this approach.
In general, care should be taken not to preclude
possible AFB grafting in the future in surgical candidates,
such as by extending stents into the perirenal aorta. Stents
should not be placed across the oriﬁce of the renal arteries,
and disease abutting the renal ostia poses increased risk for
obstruction or embolization of the renal arteries. The aortic
bifurcation is best currently treated with “kissing stents” at
the origin of the iliac arteries or with a combination of
aortic stent placement down to the bifurcation and then
kissing stents placed at the iliac vessel origins.153,154 The
use of aortic stent grafts for occlusive disease142 has been
described in only limited situations, and the routine use
of this approach awaits further data acquisition.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

18S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Table III. Outcomes of revascularization for aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD) in patients with intermittent
claudication (IC)
References (ﬁrst author)
Yilmaz,154 Soga,161 Ichihashi,160 Indes139
deVries,157 Rutherford,146 Reed,180 Brewster,182 Chiu166
Cham,176 Melliere,177 Van der Vliet,178 Chiu,166 Ricco175
Criado,267 Ricco,175 Mii268

Modality

FU duration, years

Patency (PAP), %

PTA þ stent
AFB
IFB
FFB

5
5
5
5

63-79
81-93
73-88
60-83

AFB, Aortofemoral bypass; FFB, femorofemoral bypass; FU, follow-up; IFB, iliofemoral bypass; PAP, primary assistant patency; PTA, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.

Caution should be exercised in the treatment of AIOD
where concomitant aneurysm disease is also present. If an
aneurysm is of sufﬁcient size to meet treatment guidelines,
therapy should be primarily guided by appropriate aneurysm
exclusion with concomitant restoration of unimpeded blood
ﬂow to the lower extremities. In the case of small aneurysms,
any treatment considered for symptomatic AIOD should
achieve simultaneous aneurysm exclusion or not impede
any future open or endovascular aneurysm repair options.
Mortality for endovascular interventions in the aorta can
range from 1% to 3%, and morbidity ranges from 5% to 20%,
with aortic rupture a possibility.148-150 Importantly, one
should be prepared for potential aortic rupture when
embarking on treatment for an aortic lesion with interventional therapy. Renal dysfunction has been reported in 2%
to 10% of patients. Intensive care unit stay, blood transfusion
requirements, and infection rates are generally lower with
EVT than with open aortic reconstructions.155-157
Iliac interventions. Angioplasty remains a therapy for
treatment of iliac artery disease but has largely been supplanted by a primary stenting approach for this disease. In
general, the more extensive and complex the occlusive disease, the more likely a primary stent approach will improve
patency. For this reason, except for very focal disease, primary
stenting of iliac occlusive disease offers the best approach for
long-term patency.137 The use of balloon-expandable vs selfexpanding stents has been inadequately studied to claim an
advantage of one device over another; however, certain
characteristics and locations may favor one stent design over
another. As in other beds, lesions with more calcium or
especially ostial lesions favor the use of balloon-expandable
stents, which have greater radial strength and resistance to
crush. This allows for improved expansion and retention of
vessel diameter after stent placement.
The percutaneous approach to iliac disease can vary from
ipsilateral to contralateral groin to brachial, but one should be
certain that devices with an appropriate length are available
before initiating a procedure. If there is an expectation of
the brachial approach being used, longer delivery systems
should be available. When treating from the ipsilateral
femoral approach, one should be certain that placement of
the most distal stent will not be so close to the sheath access
to prohibit accurate delivery. Here a contralateral or brachial
approach is favored to allow placement of stents to the end of
the diseased segment, which may be to the inguinal ligament.
Treatment of bilateral iliac occlusive disease is indicated
in individuals with appropriate bilateral lesions and

symptoms. Outcomes with bilateral interventions appear to
be similar to those noted in individuals where a single side
is treated; however, it is likely that patency is modestly
reduced compared with unilateral interventions. Treatment
in the common and external iliac arteries appears also to
have similar outcomes. Use of uncovered stents across the
oriﬁce of the internal iliac artery will maintain adequate hypogastric artery perfusion in most instances, and it remains more
important to treat the full extent of the disease than to limit
coverage because of concern regarding stenting across the internal iliac artery origin. In situations where there is concern
for ﬂow preservation through a hypogastric artery, a kissing
stent technique can be used at this bifurcation to maintain
patency of both vessels; however, this is rarely necessary.
A key consideration in the treatment of iliac occlusive
disease is the extension of the disease into the femoral artery. Use of stents in the common femoral artery (CFA)
is not recommended because they are more likely to fracture or fail due to ﬂexion of the artery that occurs with
hip ﬂexion. If disease extends into the CFA, the use of a
hybrid approach combining femoral endarterectomy with
iliac stenting is a better alternative in most patients.
Covered stents have been used in the treatment of iliac
occlusive disease. Covered balloon-expandable stents had better primary patency rates when used in more complex lesions
in the iliac artery.141 In the prospective, randomized Covered
vs Balloon Expandable Stent Trial,141 covered balloonexpandable stents demonstrated better primary patency rates
than bare-metal stents (BMSs) in AIOD, particularly in the
more advanced lesions. However, in a more recent singlecenter, retrospective study, BMSs had superior patency to
covered stents at 1 year.158 Regardless of any potential patency
advantages, covered stents may provide a safety margin in the
treatment of calciﬁed common iliac lesions or ectatic vessels
where rupture is a distinct possibility. For the external iliac artery, ﬂexible, self-expanding stents are recommended because
of the motion these vessels undergo and the potential for kinking and crimping of balloon-expandable stents placed in this
location. Similarly, covered versions of these stents have also
been used in the external iliac artery, although speciﬁc indications favoring one vs the other are not clear.
Initial technical success for iliac stenting varies from 90%
to 100% and depends on the extent of the disease, with
more complex lesions having lower initial technical success
rates. Long-segment occlusion of the external iliac artery,
particularly in women or patients with smaller vessels or
circumferential calciﬁcation, or both, remains an important

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

limitation for durable patency.135 The 1-year primary and secondary patency rates range from 70% to 100% and 90% to
100%, respectively.159 The 5-year primary and secondary
patency rates are noted to be 60% to 85% and 80% to 95%,
respectively.139,159-161 Perioperative mortality can be expected
to be approximately #1%,139,161 and morbidity can range
from 5% to 20%.139,159 Long-term outcomes may be inferior
in younger (<50 years) patients, particularly women.162
CFA interventions. Limited data are available to support the use of interventional therapy in occlusive disease of
the CFAs, but several single-center experiences have been
published,163-165 presenting a technical success rate of
nearly 90% and 1-year primary patency rate of 75%. Information on longer-term patency is limited, and no information is available regarding stent stability in this area
over even this short period of time. Given the limited
morbidity and risk entailed with femoral endarterectomy,
the use of interventions in this vessel for the present time
should be limited to those with a prohibitive risk for open
surgical therapy related to local or systemic risk factors.
Hybrid interventions. The use of interventional therapies for iliac disease allows treatment of occlusive disease
in patients with limited morbidity; however, when the disease extends into the CFAs, an approach using open surgical techniques to treat the CFA and stents to treat the iliac
or inﬂow vessels offers an alternative to traditional aortofemoral grafting.142,144,156 In these instances, the endarterectomy is extended proximally into the external iliac artery,
and stenting is done into the upper area of the endarterectomy to limit progression of disease in an intervening
segment. Surgical angioplasty of the femoral artery can be
performed with an eversion or standard patch technique.
Stenting of the iliac artery can usually be done from an
ipsilateral approach, with the sheath entry site well below
the upper extent of the endarterectomy to allow stents to
be placed through the full length of the diseased segment.
Initial technical success with this approach is reported
at 99% to 100% with 3-year to 5-year primary patency rates
reported at 90% and secondary patency rates of 98% to
100%.144 When compared with open aortofemoral reconstruction,166 this approach appears to have similar low mortality, with associated reductions in systemic morbidity,
infection risks, and a number of postsurgical complications
while providing similar patency rates, especially when
comparing secondary patency rates.
5B. Aortoiliac revascularization: Surgery
General considerations. Although endovascular intervention has become dominant in this vascular territory, surgery continues to have an important role in the current
treatment of patients with disabling claudication secondary
to AIOD. Relative indications for surgical vs endovascular
approaches will be discussed below but primarily relate to
disease distribution, prior interventions performed, and
overall patient risk. A range of surgical options is available,
depending on these and other technical considerations.
There are a number of key anatomic considerations that
directly inﬂuence the choice of an optimal surgical strategy in

Conte and Pomposelli et al 19S

AIOD. The nature and extent of aortic disease is preeminent. Axial imaging studies, typically CTA, are important
in the revascularization planning. The location and severity
of the occlusive lesions, as well as the presence of any aneurysmal changes, have direct implications. Noncontrast scans
are particularly helpful in preoperative planning to assess
calciﬁcation, which can severely complicate clamping and suturing. Total occlusions, most commonly up to the subrenal
aorta, are best approached by direct reconstruction with
thromboendarterectomy of the aortic cuff and an end-toend bypass graft in suitable candidates. Combined occlusive
and aneurysmal disease should be treated by complete exclusion of the aneurysmal segment rather than simple bypass.
When choosing between end-to-end and end-to-side aortic
graft conﬁguration, the extent of disease in the subrenal aorta
and the status of the pelvic circulation are major issues.167,168
There are no clear differences in long-term outcomes for
end-to-end vs end-to-side aortofemoral grafts169,170; however, the end-to-end technique requires less disease-free
aorta and the graft is somewhat easier to cover with retroperitoneal tissue. In general, proximal anastomoses should be
performed to the immediate subrenal segment (ie, the
zone between the renal and inferior mesenteric arteries)
because progression of atherosclerosis is highly likely in the
more distal abdominal aorta and may limit durability.
The pattern of iliac disease encountered may be highly
variable. Unilateral disease, with complete occlusion of both
common and external iliac arteries, or occlusion of the
external iliac artery alone, may be approached surgically with
either in-line (unilateral AFB or IFB) or extra-anatomic
(FFB or AxFB) strategies. The choice between these depends
on patient risk, status of the contralateral iliofemoral system
and contralateral groin, and suitability of the proximal common iliac or aorta for inﬂow anastomosis. The presence of
pre-existing stents or stent grafts in any of these segments
will also inﬂuence the choice and conduct of the procedure.
As noted above, the presence and severity of CFA disease
is a critical point that often dictates whether a purely endovascular vs an open surgical or hybrid approach is undertaken.
Long-term outcomes and limb status after reconstructions
for AIOD are highly dependent on continued patency of
the CFAs and deep femoral arteries (DFAs).171,172 The presence of FP and distal occlusive disease is also common, particularly in smokers. For patients with disabling claudication and
rest pain (Rutherford 2-4), inﬂow reconstruction of signiﬁcant AIOD is frequently all that is required to improve symptoms. A staged approach is therefore recommended in such
patients with multilevel disease, with re-evaluation of symptom status after inﬂow correction.
Direct (in-line) aortofemoral and iliofemoral
reconstruction. Direct surgical revascularization for
AIOD is often considered the gold standard for durable
vascular interventions, with patency rates >80% at 10 years
for AFB or aortoiliac endarterectomy.145,173,174 Patency
rates for unilateral IFB are also typically in the range of 90%
at 3 to 5 years.166,175-178 The disease pattern most
amenable to endarterectomy (ie, localized lesions in the
terminal aorta and common iliacs) is readily treated by

20S Conte and Pomposelli et al

endovascular means; hence, this operation has become
extremely uncommon in current practice.
Transperitoneal or retroperitoneal approaches may be
used without signiﬁcant differences in outcomes. Unilateral
operations are readily performed via retroperitoneal approaches. In addition to considerations regarding the nature
of the proximal anastomosis discussed above, a critical point is
treatment of the CFAs and DFAs at the distal anastomosis.
Ensuring an adequate caliber profunda outﬂow is essential
and mandates careful preoperative and intraoperative evaluation. In circumstances of truly isolated AIOD and no or minimal disease in the common femoral/bifurcation, the
anastomosis may be performed to the mid-CFA level. In all
other circumstances, the arteriotomy in the CFA should allow
direct interrogation of the DFA and SFA oriﬁces, with use of
adjunctive endarterectomy and patch angioplasty as needed
based on burden and location of disease. Failure to address
this critical point may signiﬁcantly limit the durability of the
bypass graft, because the presence or progression of outﬂow
disease, or both, is the most common reason for midterm and
late-term graft occlusions. Very rarely, disease spares the
external iliac arteries and the femoral arteries, and in these circumstances, an aortoiliac bypass may be performed to the
distal external iliac arteries via a transabdominal approach.179
One must be cautious to ensure the absence of any signiﬁcant
femoral disease by imaging studies in such cases.
Prosthetic grafts (Dacron, expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene [ePTFE]) are typically used for AFB and IFB
and have excellent durability. Small graft sizes (eg, 12 
6 mm) have been associated with decreased patency and
should be avoided.180 In the special circumstance of
infected or contaminated ﬁelds, or removal of a previous
infected graft, autogenous and cryopreserved conduits (artery or vein) have been used with good success.
Perioperative mortality for these procedures is
generally <3%,181 although morbidity may include cardiac,
pulmonary, infectious, wound, and gastrointestinal complications in 10% to 15%. Patency rates for AFB, aortoiliac endarterectomy, and IFB, as noted, have ranged from 80% to 90%
at 5-year and 10-year intervals.156,157,166,173,174,180,182 Functional outcomes for claudicant patients, although less
frequently reported, are generally quite good but depend on
the presence of infrainguinal disease and modiﬁcation of lifestyle and risk factors. Long-term complications include limb
occlusions, pseudoaneurysm, graft infection, and graftenteric ﬁstula. Although the overall results are excellent,
caution is warranted in certain subgroups of patients who
have demonstrated inferior outcomes, particularly younger
patients (age <50 years), hypercoagulable patients, and those
with very small-caliber outﬂow vessels.180 Younger patients
with premature AIOD are a high-risk group reﬂecting poorly
controlled risk factors, underlying genetic or biochemical predispositions, and a more aggressive vascular phenotype.183
Conservative management of younger patients with AIOD
is advocated because the initiation of surgical or endovascular
interventions at a premature age can lead to accelerated progression toward a more critical stage of disease. Furthermore,
recent data from clinical trials74 support the role of exercise

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

therapy as an initial strategy for claudicant patients with inﬂow
disease, and this should be advocated as a primary treatment
strategy, particularly in the younger patient.
Extra-anatomic reconstruction for AIOD. For patients with extensive patterns of AIOD who are deemed to
be at high risk or technical complexity for direct surgical reconstructions, particularly those with advanced ischemic symptoms, extra-anatomic bypass grafts offer a suitable alternative.
In general, extra-anatomic bypass grafts are not considered as a
ﬁrst-line approach for patients with IC because their long-term
durability and hemodynamic effect are inferior to in-line reconstructions. Their use in patients with claudication should
be limited to special circumstances such as graft or stent
complications, hostile abdomen, or other factors precluding an
endovascular or in-line surgical approach.
Key considerations in selecting an extra-anatomic strategy include whether the AIOD is unilateral or bilateral
(and if bilateral, can unilateral inﬂow be corrected by suitable
endovascular means), nature of prior interventions, and the
status of the contralateral groin. FFB grafting can be readily
done under regional or even local anesthesia with sedation,
offering an important potential advantage. AxFB is challenging to perform under anything but a general anesthetic.
Angiographic imaging (CTA or catheter based) is recommended before performing extra-anatomic bypass grafting to fully evaluate the inﬂow and outﬂow anatomy. Direct
angiography is mandatory for FFB if there is any suggestion
of disease in the donor iliofemoral system by pulse examination, hemodynamic assessments, or axial imaging. Formal
evaluation of the aortic arch vessels is not generally required
for AxFB unless there is a discrepancy in brachial pressures
or another reason to suspect brachiocephalic disease.
For FFB, the donor iliac system must be free of hemodynamically signiﬁcant disease, or such diseasedif present and
of a localized naturedcorrected by endovascular means
with conﬁrmed elimination of any translesional pressure gradients (<5 mm Hg mean pressure resting) before performing
the bypass.184 Interrogation and treatment of both donor
and recipient CFAs, as noted above, is imperative to optimize
long-term outcomes. The graft is placed in a deep subcutaneous, extrafascial tunnel across the suprapubic region of the
lower abdomen. Dacron and ePTFE conduits have equal
and acceptable results. Autogenous and cryopreserved grafts
may be used for FFB in settings of infection. Care must be
taken in regard to the lie of the graft in relation to the lower
abdomen, particularly where there is a signiﬁcant pannus. A
gentle upside down “U” conﬁguration is used, placing the
heel of the anastomosis at the mid to distal CFA level to avoid
kinking when standing upright. Mortality (<2%) and
morbidity (10%) after FFB are generally low. Long-term outcomes are quite acceptable, with patency rates in the 55% to
80% range out to 5 years,175 although signiﬁcantly inferior
to in-line reconstructions. Primary factors affecting patency
are the status of the outﬂow vessels (ie, presence of severe disease in the SFA or DFA on the recipient side) and progression
or recurrence of disease in the donor iliac system.176,185
AxFB is uncommonly used in the setting of claudication.
It may be performed to one or both lower limbs, depending

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

on the clinical circumstances. Because ﬂow rates through the
long prosthetic axillofemoral graft limb are higher with bilateral grafts, the bifemoral conﬁguration is generally preferred.
The proximal anastomosis should be made to the second
portion of the axillary artery, exposed by division or retraction of the pectoralis major muscle. Externally supported
prosthetic conduits (Dacron or ePTFE) are used to resist
compression along the chest wall. The tunnel should be
placed anterior to the anterior-superior iliac spine and below
the pectoralis major muscle, along the anterior axillary line. A
variety of conﬁgurations have been used for the crossfemoral limb and distal anastomoses, without apparent inﬂuence on the outcome. The inverted “U” conﬁguration, as
used in FFB, is most commonly used.

Conte and Pomposelli et al 21S

As in all reconstructions for AIOD, careful attention is
paid to the status of the CFA/DFA, and adjunctive endarterectomy or patch angioplasty are performed as needed.
Operative mortality and morbidity for AxFB are low and
similar to FFB.186 Reported outcomes are inferior to AFB,
IFB, and many series of FFB, with 5-year patency rates in
the 50% to 75% range, although the reported results are variable and also dependent on the severity of outﬂow disease.187 As a result of these limitations, AxFB is rarely
advised for patients with claudication. When used in circumstances such as aortic graft infection or mycotic aneurysm,
patients will often report some degree of functional limitation with aggressive exercise due to the inherent hemodynamic limitations of the long axillofemoral conduit.

Recommendations: Interventions for aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD) in intermittent claudication (IC)

5.3.
5.4.
5.5.

5.6.

5.7.

5.8.

5.9.

5.10.
5.11.

5.12.

5.13.
5.14.

5.15.

We recommend endovascular procedures over open surgery for focal AIOD causing IC.
We recommend endovascular interventions as ﬁrst-line revascularization therapy for most
patients with common iliac artery or external iliac artery occlusive disease causing IC.
We recommend the selective use of BMS or covered stents for aortoiliac angioplasty for common
iliac artery or external iliac artery occlusive disease, or both, due to improved technical success and
patency.
We recommend the use of covered stents for treatment of AIOD in the presence of severe
calciﬁcation or aneurysmal changes where the risk of rupture may be increased after
unprotected dilation.
For patients with diffuse AIOD (eg, extensive aortic disease, disease involving both common and
external iliac arteries) undergoing revascularization, we suggest either endovascular or surgical
intervention as ﬁrst-line approaches. Endovascular interventions that may impair the potential for
subsequent AFB in surgical candidates should be avoided.
EVT of AIOD in the presence of aneurysmal disease should be undertaken cautiously. We
recommend that the modality used should either achieve concomitant aneurysm exclusion or
should not jeopardize the conduct of any future open or endovascular aneurysm repair.
In all patients undergoing revascularization for AIOD, we recommend assessing the CFA. If
hemodynamically signiﬁcant CFA disease is present, we recommend surgical therapy
(endarterectomy) as ﬁrst-line treatment.
In patients with iliac artery disease and involvement of the CFA, we recommend hybrid
procedures combining femoral endarterectomy with iliac inﬂow correction.
We recommend direct surgical reconstruction (bypass, endarterectomy) in patients with
reasonable surgical risk and diffuse AIOD not amenable to an endovascular approach, after
one or more failed attempts at EVT, or in patients with combined occlusive and aneurysmal
disease.
In younger patients (age <50 years) with IC, we recommend a shared decision-making
approach to engage patients and inform them of the possibility of inferior outcomes with
either endovascular or surgical interventions.
We recommend either axial imaging (eg, CT, MR) or catheter-based angiography for evaluation
and planning of surgical revascularization for AIOD.
When performing surgical bypass for aortoiliac disease, concomitant aneurysmal disease of the
aorta or iliac arteries should be treated as appropriate (exclusion) and is a contraindication to
end-to-side proximal anastomoses.
For any bypass graft originating from the CFA, the donor iliac artery must be free of
hemodynamically signiﬁcant disease or any pre-existing disease should be corrected before
performing the bypass graft.

Grade

Level of
evidence

1
1

B
B

1

B

1

C

2

B

1

C

1

B

1

B

1

B

2

C

1

Ungraded

1

Ungraded

1

Ungraded

BMS, Bare-metal stent; CFA, common femoral artery; CT, computed tomography; EVT, endovascular therapy.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

22S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Summary of evidence: Interventions for aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD)

Clinical question
The effect of endovascular
vs open surgery for AIOD
on the outcomes of mortality,
complications, and patency
The effect of PTA vs stent
placement for AIOD on
the outcomes of mortality,
complications, and patency

The effect of endovascular
vs open surgery for extensive
AIOD on the outcomes of
mortality, complications, and
patency

Data source

Finding

Meta-analyses of mostly
nonrandomized series
(AIOD, not all IC)139

The open bypass group experienced
more complications and greater 30day mortality. At 1, 3, and 5 years,
primary patency rates were greater in
the open bypass group
Meta-analyses of mostly
Complication and mortality rates were
nonrandomized series
similar. Immediate technical success
(AIOD, data provided
rate (PTA group, 91%; stent group,
for IC).137
96%); 4-year primary patency rates for
PTA (65% for stenosis, 54% for
Meta-analyses of mostly
occlusions) and for stents (77% for
nonrandomized series
stenoses, 61% for occlusions)
(class C and D aortoiliac
lesions)138
Meta-analyses of
With endovascular approach, mortality
nonrandomized series
ranged 1.2%-6.7% and complications
of EVT for extensive
ranged 3%-45%. Clinical symptoms
AIOD188
improved in 83% to 100%. Technical
success was achieved in 86% to 100%
of the patients. The 4-year or 5-year
primary and secondary patency rates
were 60% to 86% and 80% to 98%,
respectively

Quality of
evidence
B-C

B-C

B-C

EVT, Endovascular therapy; IC, intermittent claudication; PTA, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.

5C. Infrainguinal disease
Occlusive lesions of the FP segment most commonly
present with IC involving the calf. Isolated lesions of the
crural or foot arteries usually do not cause claudication,
although disease involving both segments may cause severe
calf claudication and symptoms can involve the foot. In
many patients, unilateral calf claudication is well tolerated
and may be managed conservatively, as previously
described. For patients with more severe symptoms
requiring treatment, a trial of exercise therapy, preferably
supervised training108,126 or approved pharmacologic treatment (cilostazol),127 or both, should be undertaken before
invasive therapy. If these measures are unsuccessful, invasive therapy may be appropriate after a detailed discussion
with the patient. As previously noted, this discussion
should cover the natural history of IC, the risks and beneﬁts of open surgery and endovascular interventions, an estimate of long-term patency, likelihood of symptom relief,
and the implications of failed therapy.
In the last decade, vascular specialists have readily
adopted EVT as an attractive alternative to open bypass
surgery for infrainguinal occlusive disease. PTA and stenting are the most commonly used EVTs for focal and
intermediate-length stenosis.9,189 However, the development of other techniques and technologies, such as subintimal angioplasty, devices for crossing and re-entering
long-segment total occlusions, stent grafts, and mechanical

and laser atherectomy, have made it possible to successfully
treat even advanced disease,190 leading some vascular specialists to advocate an endovascular-ﬁrst approach for patients undergoing lower extremity revascularization.191 In
most cases, endovascular procedures are well tolerated
with minimal complications, require short hospital stays,
and result in rapid recovery.
However, endovascular procedures are less durable
than surgical bypass and have a greater need for reintervention, especially in cases of diffuse stenosis or longsegment total occlusion of the superﬁcial femoral or
popliteal arteries, or both (Table IV). Although the frequency with which failed open or EVTs lead directly to
clinical worsening is unclear, it undoubtedly occurs with
either modality. This possibility must be carefully considered during discussions with patients, particularly those
with bilateral disease and more challenging anatomy. In
average-risk claudicant patients with advanced FP occlusive disease (FPOD), surgical bypass provides better durability, a decreased need for reintervention, and is usually
well tolerated, with a low rate of complications. In bypasses crossing the knee joint, good-quality saphenous
vein is the preferred conduit when available. EVT is a
reasonable alternative in settings of favorable anatomy
and in those with inadequate venous conduit.
For patients with IC, the reduced risk of complications,
short recovery time, and rapid return to normal functioning

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 23S

Table IV. Outcomes of intervention for femoropopliteal occlusive disease (FPOD) in patients with intermittent
claudication (IC)
References (ﬁrst author)
Hunink,193 Muradin,269 Schillinger270
Schillinger,270 Laird,210 Matsumura211
Kedora,271 Shackles,272 Geraghty196
Pereira,273 Klinkert274
Robinson,275 Klinkert,274 Pereira273

Modality

FU duration, years

PTA
PTA þ stent
Covered stent
FP vein
FP prosthetic

2
2
1
5
5

Patency (PAP), %
26-68
51-68
53-77
70-75
40-60

FP, Femoropopliteal; FU, follow-up; PAP, primary patency; PTA, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.

with EVT has lowered the threshold for invasive treatment
to include patients who were previously managed without
invasive treatment when the only option was conventional
surgery. However, there is no conclusive evidence supporting this more aggressive approach,192 especially compared
with supervised exercise.76 Treatment guidelines from the
American Heart Association43 and the revised TransAtlantic Intersociety Consensus document9 recommend
the use of EVT as a ﬁrst-line treatment for those patients
requiring invasive therapy for focal and moderate disease,
with open bypass recommended for diffuse disease or
long-segment total occlusions, or both. However, the quality of evidence of the long-term efﬁcacy of EVT compared
with open surgical bypass for the treatment of IC is low.
Consequently, the decision of which modality to use must
be individualized and should take into account other clinical
factors beyond arterial anatomy, including periprocedural
risks, availability of conduit, and anticipated risk of wound
complications. Patient preference, after full consideration
of the trade-offs, plays an important role as well.
FP revascularization: Catheter-based intervention.
IC can be caused by occlusive lesions in the aortoiliac
segment (see previous section), as well as the CFA, SFA,
profunda femoral, and popliteal arteries. How often occlusive lesions conﬁned to the infrapopliteal arteries result in
claudication remains unclear. Treatment of isolated infrapopliteal disease for relief of claudication is not advised.
In patients with multisegment disease, the more proximal
disease should be treated ﬁrst and usually results in
improvement in symptoms without extending treatment
to the more distal arteries. Endovascular interventions are
generally safe, with infrequent complications and lower
levels of morbidity, mortality, and an earlier return to
normal function than surgical bypass.
EVT options for FPOD include PTA alone, especially
for short focal lesions <4 cm,193 angioplasty with selfexpanding stents,194 angioplasty with balloon-expandable
stents,195 angioplasty with covered stent grafts,196,197 atherectomy,198-200 antimyoproliferative drug-coated balloons,201-203 and drug-eluting stents (DESs).204
Combination EVT involving atherectomy and DESs has
been reported in European trials.205
Signiﬁcant occlusive lesions of the CFA are generally
treated with surgical endarterectomy and patch angioplasty,
except in patients with signiﬁcant comorbidities or hostile

groins precluding surgical treatment. Combined open and
endovascular hybrid procedures involving CFA endarterectomy and then angioplasty of either proximal iliac artery lesions (see above) or distal SFA lesions been shown to be
effective for the management of claudication.206,207 EVT
of the CFA for claudication is an alternative treatment to
open surgery for selected patients with hostile groins or multiple previous vascular procedures.164,208 Primary intervention using balloon angioplasty and self-expanding stent
placement has been reported; however, placement of stents
within the CFA may be complicated by plaque shifting into
the origin of the profunda femoral artery. Moreover, late
failure resulting in CFA occlusion makes subsequent open
or endovascular interventions more complicated. Stent fracture or vessel injury due to groin ﬂexion point is an additional concern. Atherectomy has been reported as an
alternative treatment option that obviates some of these
problems.209 In general, endovascular approaches to the
CFA artery are not well proven, and disease in this artery
is preferably treated surgically.
IC rarely results from isolated profunda femoral disease
unless there is associated CFA or SFA disease. Endovascular intervention on the profunda femoral artery for claudication symptoms is of unproven value and may carry
substantial risk to this most important source of collateral
ﬂow in the limb. The multiple branch points within the
profunda femoral artery make angioplasty and stenting
complicated. Similar to the common femoral bifurcation,
atherosclerotic plaque near the branch points can shift plaque during angioplasty and occlude one of the branch vessels if not adequately protected.
The SFA is the most common site of atherosclerotic
occlusive disease resulting in claudication. The severity
of symptoms from occlusive disease in the SFA varies
considerably, based on the extent of collateralization
from the profunda femoral artery to the geniculate collateral arteries at the popliteal artery. After failure of an exercise program and optimization of medical therapy,
endovascular intervention can be considered. Open surgical bypass success is dependent on arterial inﬂow,
outﬂow, and the quality of the bypass conduit. Primary
predictors of endovascular success and long-term patency
differ signiﬁcantly and include the length of the lesion,
degree of stenosis, size of the artery, and degree of
calciﬁcation.

24S Conte and Pomposelli et al

PTA alone has been shown to be most effective for
short focal lesions in the SFA (<4 cm). However, all angioplasties can be complicated by ﬂow-limiting dissection,
embolization, and acute arterial recoil with the associated
risk of abrupt closure. The adjunct use of a selfexpanding covered or BMS has been shown to be effective
in improving patency of longer lesions in the SFA and to
treat PTA-related complications of dissection and acute
recoil. Several trials have demonstrated the efﬁcacy and
possible superiority of self-expanding stents in the treatment of longer SFA lesions. In the Randomized Study
Comparing the Edwards Self-Expanding LifeStent vs
Angioplasty-alone In Lesions Involving The SFA and/or
Proximal Popliteal Artery (RESILIENT) study, nitinol
BMSs were compared with angioplasty. Treatment of multiple lesions was permitted provided they were treated with
one stent. The mean lesion treated was 7.1 cm in stent
cohort and 6.4 cm in the angioplasty cohort. The reported
observed patency at 1 year was 81.3% and 36.7%, respectively, for the stent and angioplasty groups.194 In a 3year follow-up of the RESILIENT study, freedom from
target lesion revascularization and clinical success was
signiﬁcantly higher in the primary stent cohort, but no
data were available on patency.210
The Study for Evaluating Endovascular Treatments of
Lesions in the Superﬁcial Femoral Artery and Proximal
Popliteal By Using the Protege EverfLex Nitinol Stent System II (DURABILITY II) trial was a single-arm trial investigating the efﬁcacy of a single self-expanding nitinol stent in
the treatment of occlusive lesions in the SFA >4 and <
20 cm. Duplex-derived primary patency at 1 year was
77.2% for lesions with a mean length of 8.9 cm.211 The Zilver PTX trial randomly assigned 471 patients with SFA lesions averaging 6.5 cm to treatment with a paclitaxel DES
or PTA as a primary procedure and to BMS in a subset of
110 study patients who required further treatment for immediate failure of PTA alone. Patency at 1 year was 83.1%
for DES and 32.8% for PTA. In the 110 patients undergoing
salvage stenting for failed PTA, 1-year patency was signiﬁcantly better for DES compared with BMS (89.9% vs
73%).204 The patency superiority of paclitaxel DES over
PTA (74.8% vs 26.5%) and BMS (83.4% vs 64.1%) was sustained in a 2-year follow-up report of the same study.212
PTFE-covered self-expanding stents have been used to
treat long-segment lesions within the SFA for patients
with claudication, although their superiority to BMSs is
as yet unproven. The Viabahn Endoprosthesis with
PROPATEN Bioactive Surface (VIA) vs Bare Nitinol
Stent in the Treatment of Long Lesions in Superﬁcial
Femoral Artery Occlusive Disease (VIASTAR) prospective
multicenter trial213 compared BMSs with heparin-bonded
PTFE covered stents in the treatment of long-segment
SFA stenosis and found no statistically signiﬁcant difference in 1-year primary patency by intention-to-treat analysis, although in the treatment per protocol cohort and in
those with lesions >20 cm, patency was superior in the
PTFE group. This study was ﬂawed by protocol violations
in >8% of cases.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

The Viabahn vs Bare Nitinol Stent in the Treatment of
Long Lesion Superﬁcial Femoral Artery Occlusive Disease
(VIBRANT) trial randomized 148 patients to PTFE
covered or nitinol BMSs for lesions averaging 18 cm in
length. At 3 years, primary patency was nearly identical
(24.2% vs 25.9%).196 Some authors have raised caution
about the failure mode of covered stents in FPOD, with
a higher proportion of acute limb ischemia events
compared with BMS, particularly when distal collateral vessels are covered.214 Covered stents may have a role in the
treatment of diffuse in-stent restenosis in the SFA.215 At
the present time, given the increased cost and lack of clinical superiority over BMSs, a primary role for covered stents
in the treatment of IC due to FPOD remains unclear.
Balloon-expandable or self-expanding covered stents may
have a role in the treatment of highly calciﬁed focal SFA
lesions, but this has not been prospectively evaluated.
Plaque excision by mechanical atherectomy using cutting blades, laser ablation, or “sanding” with a diamondencrusted burr has been proposed as an alternative to
angioplasty and stenting for symptomatic PAD. In a recent
meta-analysis of four randomized studies including only
220 patients comparing atherectomy with other established
treatments, including angioplasty, stenting, lower extremity bypass, and exercise therapy, the authors concluded
there was no evidence to support the superiority of atherectomy over angioplasty for any outcome. They also observed
that the quality of existing evidence is poor and recommended further study with properly powered trials.199
Antimyoproliferative drug-coated balloons have been
evaluated for the treatment of SFA disease in patients with
claudication. The Taxan with Short Exposure for Reduction
of Restenosis in Distal Arteries (THUNDER),202 Femoral
Paclitaxel (FemPac),203 and Moxy Drug Coated Balloon
vs Standard Balloon Angioplasty for the Treatment of Femoropopliteal Arteries (LEVANT 1)201 studies demonstrated
improved patency relative to PTA without drug coating but
were limited by small sample sizes, heterogeneous patient
populations, and incomplete follow-up. Two larger regulatory trials (LEVANT 2, IN.PACT SFA216) have recently reported improved patency for drug-coated versus uncoated
balloon angioplasty in femoropopliteal disease. As a result,
the FDA has recently approved two drug-coated balloon devices for the treatment of occlusive lesions in the SFA and
popliteal artery. It remains unclear how drug coated balloon
angioplasty will compare in durability to other approaches
such as stents referenced above. Bioabsorbable DESs are
currently being evaluated in Europe but are not available
within the United States.
The efﬁcacy of EVT must also be weighed against the
potential for acute and long-term complications. Common
endovascular complications include arterial dissection at
the area of treatment site, arterial perforation, pseudoaneurysm creation, acute recoil associated with abrupt closure or
restenosis, embolization distal to the site of intervention,
and arteriovenous ﬁstula creation. Implantation of a stent
also carries speciﬁc, stent-related risk factors, including
stent fracture, chronic arterial erosion, and perforation.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Long-term complications include restenosis with potential
occlusion, loss of collateral branches at the site of the endovascular procedure, and late pseudoaneurysm formation.
One additional consideration with EVT is its effect on subsequent open surgical bypass, which has been reported to be
required in 10% to 25% of patients for failed interventions.
In one study by Joels et al,217 EVT altered the level of the
expected outﬂow target to amore distal level in 30% of patients. Previous EVT, with or without stents, may adversely
affect graft patency, limb salvage, and amputation-free survival compared with bypasses done as initial therapy for
CLI.218 Failure of stented endovascular interventions done
for claudication has resulted in acute limb ischemia, especially when covered stents grafts have been used.219 In addition to these observations, microembolization into the
outﬂow bed and loss of potential outﬂow targets have
been postulated as causes for the inferior results of secondary
surgical bypass in these patients.
Catheter-based treatment of occlusive disease involving
popliteal or more distal arteries, or both, has not been speciﬁcally evaluated for the treatment of IC and presents
additional problems and the risk of signiﬁcant complications. Popliteal occlusive disease may result in IC, especially
when there are poorly developed collaterals from the profunda femoral artery through the geniculate arteries. EVT
of popliteal artery occlusive disease is technically feasible;
however, its long-term durability is not known, and failure
in this location may result in limb-threatening ischemic
symptoms or the need for a distal tibial bypass, or both.
Flow-limiting dissection, occlusion, or perforation may
result in the undesirable need to place a stent across the
knee joint. Newer, more ﬂexible stent designs may ultimately improve outcomes in the popliteal artery,220 but
comparative studies with adequate follow-up are not available at present. Consequently, it should be undertaken
both with caution and some trepidation for claudication.
In most circumstances, isolated tibial disease does not present with symptoms of claudication and should not be undertaken for relief of claudication symptoms. Adding tibial
angioplasty to a more proximal intervention to improve runoff
in the hope of improving patency has not been studied. The
durability of tibial angioplasty is worse than SFA angioplasty,
averaging <40% at 3 years221 in patients undergoing treatment for limb salvage, where it is most commonly performed.
The need for reintervention at this level is high, and persistent
failure after repeated attempts of reintervention with repeated
failure may result in CLI requiring a distal bypass for salvage
or major limb amputation. Isolated infrapopliteal interventions are not recommended for patients with IC.
FP revascularization: Surgery. The guidelines for
conservative management of IC have been previously discussed. However, it is important to recognize that the beneﬁts of medical therapy and exercise are actually quite
modest. In a recent prospective study, absolute walking distance improvement with a home-based exercise program,
the only type available to most patients, was <90 feet.222
The effect of such a modest improvement on functional
ability and QoL may be inadequate for many patients.

Conte and Pomposelli et al 25S

Bypass surgery has been a mainstay in the invasive treatment of IC for 5 decades, although much less frequently
used in the last 10 to 15 years with the evolution and rapid
expansion of catheter-based therapies (see above). The efﬁcacy of surgical bypass for the relief of claudication symptoms
is well established. A seminal report documented long-term
functional outcomes in 14 patients who underwent vein
bypass surgery for IC, demonstrating relief of symptoms
and improved exercise performance and self-reported community-based walking abilities.223 ABI improved in surgical
patients by nearly 0.4, peak treadmill walking time by 9 minutes, and pain-free walking time by >6 minutes. Questionnaire scores for walking distance improved by 203% and
walking speed by 130%. These improvements were not predicted from routine noninvasive testing alone. The authors
were among the ﬁrst to suggest that such functional status
outcomes should be measured directly.223
The perceived morbidity associated with open surgical
therapy for IC is an important factor in clinical decision making. As with any surgical procedure, the key to a successful
outcome is appropriate patient selection. Ideal candidates
for surgical bypass for claudication should have minimal
comorbidities, good life expectancy, be signiﬁcantly disabled
speciﬁcally by claudication symptoms, and have reasonable
runoff and good conduit available for bypass.
One of the major advantages of bypass compared with
angioplasty is durability as measured by patency of the
intervention. Van der Zaag et al224 reported the results
of a randomized trial of angioplasty vs surgical bypass in
56 patients with claudication and 5- to 15-cm-long lesions
of the SFA. The primary end point was reocclusion. No
30-day deaths occurred in either group, conﬁrming the observations of many others in nonprospective studies that
surgical bypass for claudication is safe in appropriately
selected patients. More than half of the angioplasty patients
experienced a reocclusion. Surgical bypass was associated
with a signiﬁcant 31% absolute risk reduction for the end
point of subsequent reocclusion. Clinical improvement in
symptoms was also signiﬁcantly better for patients who underwent bypass (absolute difference 20%). Only one patient
among the 56 enrolled subsequently required amputation;
that individual had been initially treated by angioplasty. No
amputations were required in the bypass surgery patients.
Bypass surgery has also been shown to be associated
with superior functional improvement compared with other
treatment modalities by numerous investigators. Wolf
et al225 compared surgery and balloon angioplasty for peripheral vascular disease in a randomized fashion. Bypass
and angioplasty both showed sustained improvements in hemodynamics and QoL. Primary success was more often
achieved with bypass, but the differences were not signiﬁcant. Lundgren et al120 compared claudication patients
who underwent surgical reconstruction vs physical training
alone. Surgery was more effective, but the addition of physical training to surgery improved symptom-free walking distance even further. Surgery was signiﬁcantly better than
exercise therapy with regard to maximal walking time, ABI
improvement, and peak exercise calf blood ﬂow. A subgroup

26S Conte and Pomposelli et al

of patients whose activity was also limited by cardiopulmonary disease in addition to claudication failed to demonstrate
signiﬁcant walking improvement despite improvements in
ABI and calf ﬂow, emphasizing the importance of careful patient selection when recommending any intervention, especially surgery, for claudication.
In a systematic review of the efﬁcacy of bypass for
chronic limb ischemia, the probability of an achieving an
unlimited maximal walking performance, deﬁned as at least
1000 meters, was 75% to 95% in patients who underwent
bypass for claudication compared with only 10% to 20%
in those treated solely by exercise training.226 In another
study where patients were randomized to surgical bypass,
supervised exercise training, or observation alone, surgically
treated patients showed a signiﬁcant improvement in
maximal walking power, stopping distance, postischemic
blood ﬂow, and great toe pressure at 1 year.227 Patients
randomized to physical exercise training did not demonstrate improvements in any outcome measure. Mortality
and amputation rates were identical in both groups.
In a retrospective review, Koivunen and Lukkarinen228
demonstrated that surgically treated patients had superior clinical outcomes and health-related QoL compared with EVT
and conservative management. Speciﬁc improvements in surgically treated patients at 1 year included improvement in
pain, mobility, sleep, and emotional reactions.
Additional factors determining the success of surgical
bypass for claudication include technical and anatomic factors such as conduit, target vessel, and runoff. Available
prospective, randomized data regarding choice of conduit
for FP bypass demonstrate superior patency for vein grafts,
even to an above-knee popliteal target, compared with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

PTFE bypass, after 2 to 3 years of follow-up.229 In most
patients, sustained walking improvement and improved
QoL depend on maintenance of patency of the surgical
reconstruction. This is particularly important when treating
IC given the better functional ability and longer life expectancy compared with patients with limb-threatening
ischemia.
However, when suitable autologous vein is unavailable,
prosthetic bypass for claudication may be reasonable.
AbuRahma et al230 reported no difference in primary
patency rates between saphenous vein and PTFE bypass
in patients with IC and at least two-vessel to three-vessel
runoff. Assisted primary patency rates were still statistically
higher for vein grafts. The quality of the runoff circulation
may also affect the results of surgical treatment for claudication. Zannetti et al231 determined that absence of diabetes, minimal cardiac comorbidities, and angiograms
predicting near normalization of the postoperative ABI
resulted in excellent late outcomes and patient satisfaction
in 82% of patients meeting these criteria.
The popliteal artery is the most common outﬂow vessel
when an infrainguinal bypass is performed for claudication,
usually above the knee. However, properly selected patients without a suitable popliteal artery target may also
beneﬁt from bypass. In a retrospective study of 57
femoral-tibial bypasses performed during a 16-year period
for IC, graft patency rates were better than tibial bypass
for limb salvage and equivalent to those achieved with FP
bypass graft for claudication.232 Vein conduit, 70% of
which were saphenous vein, was used in all cases. Interviewed patients reported improved walking distance,
reduced claudication, and a high degree of satisfaction.

Recommendations: Intervention for femoropopliteal occlusive disease (FPOD) in intermittent claudication (IC)
Level of
Grade evidence
5.16. We recommend endovascular procedures over open surgery for focal occlusive disease of the SFA
artery not involving the origin at the femoral bifurcation.
5.17. For focal lesions (<5 cm) in the SFA that have unsatisfactory technical results with balloon
angioplasty, we suggest selective stenting.
5.18. For intermediate-length lesions (5-15 cm) in the SFA, we recommend the adjunctive use of selfexpanding nitinol stents (with or without paclitaxel) to improve the midterm patency of
angioplasty.
5.19. We suggest the use of preoperative ultrasound vein mapping to establish the availability and quality
of autogenous vein conduit in patients being considered for infrainguinal bypass for the treatment
of IC.
5.20. We recommend against EVT of isolated infrapopliteal disease for IC because this treatment is of
unproven beneﬁt and possibly harmful.
5.21. We recommend surgical bypass as an initial revascularization strategy for patients with diffuse FP
disease, small caliber (<5 mm), or extensive calciﬁcation of the SFA, if they have favorable
anatomy for bypass (popliteal artery target, good runoff) and have average or low operative
risk.
5.22. We recommend using the saphenous vein as the preferred conduit for infrainguinal bypass grafts.
5.23. In the absence of suitable vein, we suggest using prosthetic conduit for FP bypass in claudicant patients,
if the above-knee popliteal artery is the target vessel and good runoff is present.
EVT, Endovascular therapy; SFA, superﬁcial femoral artery.

1

C

2

C

1

B

2

C

1

C

1

B

1
2

A
C

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 27S

Summary of evidence: Intervention for femoropopliteal occlusive disease (FPOD) in intermittent claudication (IC)
Clinical question

Data source

Funding

Quality of evidence

EVT was associated with lower 30-day C (risk of bias, indirectness
morbidity (OR, 2.93; 95% CI, 1.34- because most trials
enrolled CLI patients)
6.41) and higher technical failure
(OR, 0.10; 95% CI, 0.05-0.22) than
bypass surgery. No difference in 30day mortality (OR, 0.92; 95% CI,
0.55-1.51). Higher primary patency
in the surgical treatment arm was
found at 1 (OR, 2.42; 95% CI, 1.374.28), 2 (OR, 2.03; 95% CI, 1.203.45), and 3 (OR, 1.48; 95% CI,
1.12-1.97) years after intervention.
Progression to amputation occurred
more commonly in the endovascular
group at the end of the second (OR,
0.60; 95% CI, 0.42-0.86) and third
(OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.39-0.77) year
of intervention. The bypass group
had higher amputation-free (OR,
1.31; 95% CI, 1.07-1.61) and
overall survival (OR, 1.29; 95% CI,
1.04-1.61) rates at 4 years
Meta-analysis of 8
The effect of stenting
Primary patency better with stenting at C (indirectness due to CLI
vs no stenting in patients RCTs (968 patients
6 months but not 12 months
patients included and
with IC or CLI and
with IC on morbidity,
imprecision of long-term
SFA disease)189
mortality and patency
outcome)
Balloon angioplasty with
Meta-analysis of 4
Mortality was similar in both groups C (indirectness due to CLI
optional stenting vs
RCTs (627 patients
(OR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.39-1.77).
patients included and
routine stenting with
with IC or CLI and
Technical success was signiﬁcantly
imprecision)
nitinol stents
SFA disease)234
higher in the stenting group (96% vs
64%; OR, 0.31; 95% CI, 0.09-0.92).
The 12-month binary restenosis rate
was signiﬁcantly lower in the primary
stenting group (OR, 3.02; 95% CI,
1.3-6.71)7
Comparison of various
Network meta-analysis Technical success was highest with
C (indirect comparisons,
stents
of 16 RCTs (2532
covered stents. Vascular restenosis
CLI patients included,
patients with IC or
was lowest with paclitaxel DES and
imprecision)
CLI and FP arterial
with paclitaxel-coated balloons.
disease)235
Major amputations were rare in all
treatment and control groups
(pooled amputation rate of 0.7
events/100 person-years)
Vein grafts vs PTFE
1 RCT in 43 claudicant Complication rates were 5% for PTFE B (imprecision, small
patients (86 limbs)230 and 12% for saphenous vein graft, no number of events)
operative deaths or perioperative
amputations for either procedure.
Primary, assisted primary, and
secondary patency rates at
72 months: 68%, 68%, and 77% for
PTFE and 76%, 83%, and 85% for
saphenous vein graft
Endovascular vs surgical
reconstruction

Four RCTs and six
observational studies
reporting on 2817
patients with FP
arterial disease233

CI, Conﬁdence interval; CLI, critical limb ischemia; DES, drug-eluting stent; OR, odds ratio; PAD, peripheral arterial
disease; PTFE, polytetraﬂuoroethylene; RCT, randomized controlled trial; SFA, superﬁcial femoral artery.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

28S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Assessing the efﬁcacy of revascularization for IC
Patients undergoing revascularization for claudication
desire durable improvement in pain-free walking and functional independence. Claudication rarely progresses to limb
loss, and as such, treatment with endovascular or open surgery should never result in major or minor amputation.
Consequently, limb salvage is not considered proof of efﬁcacy of any procedure undertaken to treat IC, and in fact,
loss of the limb should be considered a catastrophic failure
of therapy. The usual efﬁcacy end points in clinical trials
include standardized measures of walking ability such as
the initial time to onset of claudication, maximal walking
distance, and the 6-minute walk test; however, these end
points are rarely used in clinical practice. Patients undergoing lower extremity revascularization for claudication
should have documented improvement in symptoms as
well as hemodynamic evidence of improvement in lower
extremity perfusion. As stated above, anatomic patency is
considered a prerequisite for sustained hemodynamic
improvement and clinical beneﬁt in IC.
Postintervention medical treatment
After intervention for lower extremity vascular disease,
aggressive medical therapy is indicated not only to prevent
future cardiovascular events but also to improve patency of
the revascularization. Patients should be counseled on risk
factor modiﬁcation, as previously described, and have
accepted pharmacologic treatment for system atherosclerosis, especially statins and antiplatelet therapy. In some patients, systemic anticoagulation may also be required.
Antiplatelet agents
Antiplatelet agents are generally used to treat patients
after lower extremity bypass. Although, antiplatelet therapy
has not been conclusively proven to improve bypass graft
patency, its beneﬁt in decreasing long-term postprocedural
adverse cardiovascular events is sufﬁcient indication for the
use of these agents in most patients, who are considered to
be at high risk for cardiovascular complications and stroke.
In a systematic review236 of the effect of antiplatelet
treatment compared with placebo on bypass graft patency,
patients receiving antiplatelet therapy had improved patency
at 1 year (OR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.43-0.86). When venous and
prosthetic bypasses were analyzed separately, there was no
improvement in 12-month patency in patients undergoing
venous bypass who received acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) or
dipyridamole compared with placebo. Conversely, 12month primary patency was markedly improved in patients
undergoing prosthetic bypass who received ASA compared
with placebo (OR, 0.22; 95%, CI, 0.12-0.38). Major
bleeding events were more frequent in patients receiving
ASA therapy but did not reach statistical signiﬁcance.
The effect of adding clopidogrel to ASA was studied in 851
patients in the Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic Acid In Bypass
Surgery for Peripheral Arterial Disease Trial (CASPAR).237
This placebo-controlled RCT found no difference in outcome
between patients receiving ASA vs ASA plus clopidogrel undergoing lower extremity bypass. However, the subset of

patients undergoing prosthetic bypass (30%), demonstrated
improved patency and limb salvage when receiving ASA combined with clopidogrel compared with ASA alone.
Anticoagulation
Several trials have studied the effect of ASA compared
with warfarin on patency in lower extremity bypass. The prospective randomized Dutch Bypass Oral Anticoagulants or
ASA (BOA) trial85 randomized 2690 patients undergoing
lower extremity bypass to coumarin (target international
normalized ratio of 3-4.5) vs ASA (81 mg/d). Overall, there
was no difference in patency at 12 months in the two cohorts;
however, a subgroup analysis demonstrated superior patency
for patients undergoing vein bypass receiving coumarin
compared with those receiving ASA alone at 12 and 24 months
(OR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.46-0.76). This effect was not seen in
those patients undergoing prosthetic bypass grafts, where
patency was identical in those receiving ASA and coumarin.
Twice as many bleeding complications were observed in patients receiving coumarin as in those receiving ASA.
Despite the ﬁndings of the BOA trial, most vascular
surgeons in the United States choose not to routinely anticoagulate patients undergoing lower extremity vein bypass.
However, anticoagulant therapy may be beneﬁcial in speciﬁc circumstances where conditions are less than optimal.
In a small trial by Sarac et al,238 56 patients undergoing
high-risk vein bypass (deﬁned as poor-quality conduit or
runoff) were randomized to ASA plus warfarin vs ASA
alone. The patients receiving ASA plus warfarin had a
signiﬁcantly improved patency and limb salvage at 3 years.
The ischemic consequences of graft thrombosis may be
ameliorated by the use of anticoagulants after bypass surgery, especially when using prosthetic grafts. A multicenter
prospective, randomized trial of 402 patients undergoing
FP bypass with PTFE or saphenous vein and treated with
ASA plus warfarin or ASA alone found graft thrombosis
more commonly resulted in limb-threatening ischemia in
prosthetic grafts than in vein grafts. However, patients
with prosthetic graft thrombosis were less likely to present
with acute limb ischemia if they were receiving warfarin.239
In summary, available clinical evidence does not
conclusively support the use of antiplatelet agents to
improve lower extremity vein bypass graft patency,
although their use is still warranted to reduce future cardiovascular ischemic events and stroke. Patency may be
improved with antiplatelet therapy in patients undergoing
prosthetic bypass. The use of warfarin anticoagulation after
lower extremity bypass remains controversial, and signiﬁcant differences exist in its use between North American
and European vascular surgeons. In the United States, anticoagulation is used selectively in vein bypass procedures
with either suboptimal conduit or compromised runoff.
Warfarin in addition to ASA is used in many patients
receiving prosthetic grafts to reduce the ischemic consequences of bypass graft thrombosis. However, caution is
warranted given the incremental bleeding risks associated
with combination therapy, and existing evidence is inadequate to support a deﬁnitive recommendation at this time.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 29S

Recommendations: Postinterventional medical therapy in intermittent claudication (IC)

5.24.

5.25.
5.26.

In all patients after endovascular or open surgical intervention for claudication, we recommend
optimal medical therapy (antiplatelets agents, statins, antihypertensives, control of glycemia,
smoking cessation).
In patients undergoing lower extremity bypass (venous or prosthetic), we suggest treatment with
antiplatelet therapy (aspirin, clopidogrel, or aspirin plus clopidogrel).
In patients undergoing infrainguinal endovascular intervention for claudication, we suggest
treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel for at least 30 days.

Endovascular intervention
Limited data are available regarding therapies targeted at
preventing restenosis or occlusion after endovascular procedures in patients with IC. A recent systematic review of four
prospective randomized trials did not demonstrate any
improvement in patency at 12 months with ASA compared
with placebo.240 Nonetheless, antiplatelet therapy may be
warranted in patients undergoing EVT for claudication as
part of an aggressive medical treatment program to prevent
long-term cardiovascular complications such as stroke and
myocardial infarction. In addition, the same review evaluated
the potential effect of using higher-dose ASA (3001000 mg) compared with lower-dose ASA (50-300 mg).
No beneﬁcial effect was observed with higher doses.240
Two RCTs investigated the effect of anticoagulation and
cilostazol on patency. Koppensteiner et al241 compared the
use of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and ASA vs
ASA alone in patients undergoing popliteal angioplasty.
Improved patency was observed in patients treated with
LMWH for with CLI, but this effect was not observed in patients treated for claudication.241 Iida et al242 observed a
decrease in restenosis and reocclusion at 6, 12, and 24 months
in patients treated with cilostazol compared with ticlopidine,
similar to the beneﬁcial effect observed with cilostazol in
improving patency of coronary interventions and FP angioplasty in patients with end-stage renal failure.243

6. SURVEILLANCE AFTER REVASCULARIZATION
FOR IC
Arterial reconstructions performed for IC may be unilateral, bilateral, suprainguinal, infrainguinal, or on occasion, unilateral or bilateral combinations of suprainguinal
and infrainguinal reconstructions. Depending on the site
and extent of the arterial occlusive process, reconstructions
can be bypass operations with autogenous or prosthetic
arterial substitutes, open endarterectomy, or various combinations of catheter-based techniques. Whatever method
is selected for reconstruction, the goal is to improve patient
QoL by improving pain-free walking distance and maximal
walking distance while minimizing the need for additional
arterial reconstructive procedures.
Surveillance of vein grafts performed for IC. Autogenous vein is the preferred conduit for open infrainguinal

Grade

Level of
evidence

1

A

2

B

2

B

arterial reconstructions for treatment of claudication.
Approximately one-third of lower extremity vein grafts
will ultimately develop stenotic lesions that may threaten
patency. The large majority of such lesions develop within
the ﬁrst year of graft implantation; however, vein grafts
are never entirely free of the risk of developing stenosis.
The risk of developing vein graft stenosis appears greater
in operations performed for CLI, in operations performed
with smaller-caliber venous conduits, procedures using
nonsaphenous vein conduits, and in vein grafts with
anastomosis to more distal (tibial or pedal) arteries. Surveillance protocols for lower extremity autogenous vein
graft reconstructions were developed to detect graft stenosis before graft thrombosis and were based on this
natural history and the assumption that a patent, hemodynamically uncompromised, lower extremity arterial
reconstruction is optimal for maintaining ambulatory
function and QoL. Failure of an arterial reconstruction
performed for claudication will, at the very least, return
the patient to his or her previous level of preoperative
disability but may occasionally result in more severe
symptoms, including limb-threatening ischemia. In addition, performing a secondary bypass for a thrombosed
lower extremity vein graft is technically more difﬁcult and
complex than treatment of a failing but still patent graft.
Surveillance programs of lower extremity vein grafts may
be solely clinical or both clinical and vascular laboratory based.
The Inter-Society Consensus for the Management of Peripheral Arterial Disease (TASC II) working group recommended
patients treated with lower extremity vein grafts be monitored
for at least 2 years with a clinical surveillance program that
consists of an interval history to detect new symptoms, pulse
examination, and measurement of resting and, if possible,
postexercise ABIs.9 However, most vein graft arterial reconstructions are thought to fail through the development of
intrinsic stenotic lesions within the venous conduit, at anastomotic sites, or in the outﬂow artery distal to the distal anastomosis. Most of these lesions occur within the ﬁrst 12 to
18 months after surgery but can continue to develop or progress years later. Relying on clinical assessment alone may miss
critical vein graft stenoses that threaten graft thrombosis, especially in patients treated for CLI (see below). Vascular
laboratory-based surveillance programs of lower extremity
vein grafts focus on detection using duplex ultrasound surveillance (DUS), grading, and monitoring of stenotic lesions

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

30S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Summary of evidence: Postinterventional medical therapy
Clinical question
The effect of antiplatelet
therapy on patency, limb
salvage and survival in
patients with IC who
underwent endovascular
or open surgical
interventions

The effect of anticoagulants
agents on patency, limb
salvage and survival in
patients with IC who
underwent open surgical
interventions

The effect of antiplatelet and
anticoagulant drugs for
prevention of restenosis/
reocclusion after
peripheral EVT

Data source

Finding

Quality of evidence

Systematic review244 of 15
RCTs in patients with
symptomatic PAD
(including CLI)
undergoing infrainguinal
bypass surgery: ASA or
ASA þ dipyridamole vs
placebo (6); ASA or ASA
and dipyridamol vs
pentoxifylline (2); ASA vs
indobufen (1); ASA vs
vitamin K antagonists (2);
ASA þ dipyridamole vs
LMWH (1); ticlopidine
vs placebo (1); ASA vs
prostaglandin E1 (1);
ASA vs naftidrofuryl (1)
Systematic review245 of 14
RCTs in patients
undergoing infrainguinal
arterial bypass surgery
(including CLI)

Antiplatelet therapy
improved venous and
artiﬁcial graft patency
compared with no
treatment. More beneﬁt
in synthetic grafts

B

Systematic review240 of
22 RCTs with various
comparisons. Secondary
indirect evidence on
beneﬁts of antiplatelet
agents in reducing
cardiovascular morbidity
and mortality

Anticoagulants reduced the
risk of limb loss at the
longest follow-up (OR,
0.36; 95% CI, 0.19-0.69)
and increased primary
patency when venous
grafts were analyzed
separately (OR, 0.44; 95%
CI, 0.14-1.42). Bleeding
risk doubled compared
with antiplatelets
At 6 months
postintervention,
reocclusion was lower
with high-dose ASA þ
dipyridamole (OR, 0.40;
95% CI, 0.19-0.84), but
not for low-dose ASA þ
dipyridamole. No
signiﬁcant difference in
reocclusion or restenosis
was detected for highdose ASA vs low-dose
ASA, ASA/dipyridamole
vs vitamin K antagonists,
clopidogrel þ aspirin vs
LMWH þ warfarin, or
ticlopidine vs vitamin K
antagonists. Clopidogrel
and aspirin resulted in
fewer major bleeding
episodes compared with
LMWH þ warfarin

B-C (rated down due to
imprecision and
indirectness)

B-C (rated down due to
imprecision and
indirectness)

ASA, Acetylsalicylic acid; CI, conﬁdence interval; CLI, critical limb ischemia; EVT, endovascular therapy; IC, intermittent
claudication; LMWH, low-molecular-weight heparin; OR, odds ratio; PAD, peripheral arterial disease; RCT, randomized
controlled trial.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

within the graft or at the anastomoses thought to threaten
graft patency, regardless of clinical presentation.
There is an extensive body of literature on the use DUS
of lower extremity vein grafts performed for CLI. Most
studies are retrospective analyses of single-institution case
series. Prospective studies have also focused on patients
with CLI and not claudication. Patients undergoing surgical
bypass for claudication are generally healthier and more
active than those treated for CLI and are theoretically
more ambulatory and more apt to report recurrence of
symptoms earlier than a minimally ambulatory, debilitated
patient treated for CLI. Grafts placed for claudication usually extend to the popliteal artery, rarely more distally, and
have superior patency compared with vein grafts placed for
CLI. It is therefore not clear whether data derived for
vascular laboratory-based DUS programs in patients treated
for CLI are applicable or even necessary for patients treated
for claudication.
The Vein Graft Surveillance Randomized Trial (VGST)
was a prospective study in the United Kingdom that randomized 594 patients with patent vein grafts 30 days after surgery246
to clinical surveillance or DUS in addition to clinical surveillance. Most the operations were from the CFA to the aboveknee or below-knee popliteal artery, and the conduits were
ipsilateral reversed saphenous vein in >90% of the procedures.
Anastomotic sites and conduits largely mimicked those most
used in vein grafts performed for claudication, even though
two-thirds of the procedures in VGST were for CLI. A comparison of the two surveillance strategies at 18 months found no
differences in primary, primary assisted, or secondary patency.
A smaller study from Sweden randomized 156 patients
with lower extremity arterial reconstructions to intensive
surveillance to include DUS (n ¼ 79) vs routine clinical
surveillance (n ¼ 77).247 Forty grafts, equally distributed
between the two groups, were PTFE grafts. Only two
grafts in each group were performed for claudication, and
two-thirds of the grafts were performed to the popliteal
artery. Among the vein grafts in the study there was
improved assisted primary and secondary patency in the
intensive surveillance group that included DUS.
Many single-institution series and one large prospective
multi-institution series demonstrated improved vein graft
patency for patients treated for CLI with a surveillance
program using duplex ultrasound detection of graft stenoses.248-252 In addition to a signiﬁcant improvement in primary and assisted primary patency of vein grafts monitored
with a DUS-based program, these studies and others have
demonstrated revised grafts have excellent long-term
patency comparable to grafts never undergoing revision.253,254 None of the studies included patients treated
for claudication. Whether the magnitude of the beneﬁt of
improved graft patency achieved in CLI patients, followed
with duplex-based surveillance, would be comparable in patients undergoing vein bypass for claudication remains unknown. Nevertheless, the signiﬁcance and consistency of
evidence demonstrating beneﬁt for a DUS-based program
for lower extremity vein grafts done for CLI infers some
beneﬁt would be derived for grafts performed for claudication,

Conte and Pomposelli et al 31S

especially during the ﬁrst year after the bypass, although the
strength of the evidence is weak. Optimal intervals for DUS
are also not well deﬁned. Current practice of many vascular surgeons in the United States is to obtain a postoperative duplex
ultrasound assessment of vein grafts within the ﬁrst month, at
3, 6, and 12 months, and every 6 to 12 months thereafter.
Surveillance of catheter-based interventions
performed for IC. Residual and early recurrent stenoses
commonly occur after endovascular procedures, particularly
when performed for more complex disease.255 The role of
DUS after EVT is unclear. To date, no randomized trials of
DUS after endovascular intervention have been performed,
but many have extrapolated DUS protocols and criteria for
peak systolic velocity (PSV) and velocity ratio (Vr) developed
for infrainguinal vein grafts and applied them to follow-up
after EVT. Duplex ultrasound can localize and grade the
presence and degree of stenosis in the FP segment after angioplasty alone as well as after stent placement, particularly in
the SFA, where authors have correlated duplex ﬁndings with
angiography. Baril et al256 reported that a PSV >275 cm/s
and a Vr >3.5 were speciﬁc and predictive cutoff values for
duplex determination of >80% in-stent restenosis after angioplasty and stent placement in the SFA.
Clinical follow-up alone, combined with ABI determination or toe pressure measurements, or both, in limb salvage
patients, and with DUS have all been proposed methods of
surveillance for catheter-based interventions. Available reports to date regarding the accuracy, predictive value, and
beneﬁts of DUS after EVT are conﬂicting. Mewissen
et al257 reported one of the earliest experiences with DUS after
balloon angioplasty of the FP artery. They demonstrated the
importance of hemodynamic assessments (ABI measurements and toe pressure measurements) in determining the degree of perfusion improvement, but these techniques could
not discriminate between restenosis or occlusion of the angioplasty site and progression of disease proximal and distal to the
treated segment. Early duplex scanning was performed at
1 month after successful FP angioplasty in 59 patients. Duplex
imaging identiﬁed <50% diameter-reducing stenosis at 63% of
angioplasty sites and >50% restenosis (Vr >2) in 27% of
treated segments. They further observed that the presence
of >50% stenosis at 30 days postintervention was predictive
of clinical failure at 1 year (P < .001). Although this study
has been used to justify surveillance and prophylactic intervention after angiography, this conclusion is questionable because
DUS was not routinely performed in all patients. Sacks et al258
found no difference in 3-year patency between patients with a
normal duplex examination at 48 hours after angioplasty
compared with those with an abnormal study (Vr >2.0),
arguing against using DUS ﬁndings as a guide for prophylactic
intervention. Spijkerboer et al259 also reported that early
DUS (1 day) ﬁndings did not correlate with clinical or
hemodynamic success 1 year after SFA-popliteal angioplasty.
In a more recent study, Humphries et al260 reported that
an abnormal duplex examination within the ﬁrst 30 days of
treatment in patients undergoing infrainguinal EVT for
CLI, was associated with an increased subsequent risk of
amputation.

32S Conte and Pomposelli et al

Other investigators have reported that despite intense
surveillance, outcomes after long-segment percutaneous
treatment of SFA lesions are suboptimal. Gray et al261 reported that even with close surveillance and prophylactic
reintervention, anatomic patency after intervention with selective stenting for long-segment SFA lesions (mean length,
16.5 cm) at 1 year was poor, although clinical outcomes were
favorable. After tibial interventions, Schmidt et al262 reported an angiographic >50% restenosis rate of 31.2% and
a treated segment occlusion rate of 37.6% at 3 months after
treatment of long-segment (>8 cm) tibial lesions, despite
high rates of clinical success and limb salvage in most patients
with Rutherford 4 and 5 ischemia. These and other studies
suggest that unlike vein graft surveillance, duplex-derived
patency is poorly correlated with the clinical success of
catheter-based interventions, making prophylactic interventions on the basis of duplex data highly questionable.
Clinical follow-up and hemodynamic assessment alone after infrainguinal EVT has been proposed. Tielbeek et al263 reported a prospective assessment of 124 patients during a 5-year
period who underwent EVT for femoropopliteal disease.
Although a duplex-detected Vr >2.5 at the intervention site
predicted subsequent occlusion of the treated arterial segment,
they observed that only one patient with failure would have
received a redo endovascular procedure at the time he had
restenosis, supporting their bias that clinical and hemodynamic
assessments were more useful than DUS for follow-up. Spijkerboer et al264 monitored patients with serial DUS after iliac interventions and found that the clinical outcomes of patients
with residual stenosis did not differ from patients with normal
DUS studies. They also observed regression of some stenoses
over time, without reintervention, an observation that has
been conﬁrmed by others after infrainguinal EVT.265
Bui et al265 analyzed a consecutive series of 94 interventions in 85 patients for SFA-popliteal artery occlusive disease.
Prophylactic interventions were rarely performed, and reinterventions were reserved almost exclusively for clinical indications such as recurrent symptoms or failure of wounds to
heal. Patients were stratiﬁed by whether the initial scan performed in the ﬁrst 30 days after the intervention was normal.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

Initial scans were normal in 61 limbs (65%) and remained
normal during follow-up in 62% of these patients. In 17 limbs
(28%), progressive stenoses were detected during DUS. The
rate of spontaneous thrombosis without prophylactic reintervention in this group was only 10%. In this study, DUS was
initially normal after about two-thirds of interventions, a rate
quite similar to that reported for infrainguinal vein grafts.249
However, only 62% of those patients with initially normal
DUS studies remained normal during follow-up, in contrast
to the 90% to 95% rate observed after vein graft placement; a
de novo stenosis rate after EVT is w28%, compared with 5%
after vein grafting.249 The authors also observed stabilization
or resolution of stenosis after EVT occurred quite commonly
despite early abnormal ﬁndings. One important difference
observed compared with FP vein grafts is the poor correlation
between the degree of stenosis and the likelihood of occlusion
with EVT. Of the occlusions after EVT, 82% occurred when
minimal or moderate stenosis (PSV, 200-300 cm/s; Vr, 2-3)
had been detected before the intervention.249,250 Moreover,
had duplex ﬁndings been used as the sole indication for prophylactic reintervention, w30 patients would have undergone
a clinically unnecessary intervention.
Unlike vein graft stenosis, the natural history of stenosis
after EVT remains uncertain, making the prediction of which
lesion will progress to failure difﬁcult to determine. As previously stated, the lack of reliable data documenting the natural
history of the DUS-detected stenosis after EVT makes the
practice of prophylactic intervention on the basis of stenosis
highly questionable and possibly harmful. Moreover, there
may be differences with respect to the behavior of restenoses
after angioplasty alone compared with restenoses that
develop after stent placement. There are data suggesting
that durable salvage of thrombosed superﬁcial FP stents is
poor and that occlusion of such stents compromises runoff.
Ihnat et al,219 analyzing a series of 109 consecutive SFA
stents, reported that stent occlusion was associated with a signiﬁcant worsening of the SVS runoff score from 4.1 to 6.4,
amounting to the loss of one runoff vessel for each episode
of stent occlusion. If these ﬁnding are conﬁrmed in future
studies and accurate cutoff criteria predicting progression to

Recommendations: Surveillance after interventions for intermittent claudication (IC)

6.1.

6.2.
6.3.

We suggest that patients treated with open or endovascular interventions for IC be monitored
with a clinical surveillance program that consists of an interval history to detect new
symptoms, ensure compliance with medical therapies, record subjective functional
improvements, pulse examination, and measurement of resting and, if possible,
postexercise ABIs.
We suggest that patients treated with lower extremity vein grafts for IC be monitored with a
surveillance program that consists of clinical follow-up and duplex scanning.
We suggest that patients who have previously undergone vein bypass surgery for IC and have
developed a signiﬁcant graft stenosis on DUS be considered for prophylactic reintervention
(open or endovascular) to promote long-term bypass graft patency.

ABI, Ankle-brachial index; DUS, duplex ultrasound.

Grade

Level of
evidence

2

C

2

C

1

C

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 33S

Summary of evidence: Surveillance after interventions for intermittent claudication (IC)

Clinical question

Data source

Finding

Quality of
evidence

Improved vein graft patency C (quality of evidence rated
The effect of surveillance after Data derived from CLI
down due to indirectness,
with DUS (CLI patients).
patients, uncontrolled and
revascularization for IC on
methodological limitation,
Two RCTs showed no
mostly in vein grafts. Two
patency (surveillance vs no
and imprecision)
difference between clinical
RCTs comparing clinical
surveillance, clinical followexamination and DUS
examination vs DUS
up vs duplex scanning,
shorter interval of surveillance
vs longer interval)
CLI, Critical limb ischemia; DUS, duplex ultrasound; RCT, randomized controlled trial.
clinical failure after SFA stenting can be determined, selective
prophylactic reintervention after SFA stenting might be
reasonable. At this time, however, no such data exist.
In summary, the natural history of stenotic lesions from
EVT remains uncertain, and the beneﬁts of intervention
based on duplex ﬁndings alone not yet established. Until
such criteria are available, patients undergoing EVT should
have serial clinical follow-up, including simple hemodynamic
measurements, at clinical intervals appropriate for the indication for intervention and the extent of disease treated. In
general, those treated for CLI, and with long-segment occlusions should be monitored more closely than those treated
for claudication.219,261,265 The role of duplex imaging in
these patients is currently unclear although useful in determining whether recurrent symptoms are due to stenosis or
occlusion and to localize lesions, which might alter the treatment plan. Continued use of duplex may also help to clarify
its role further, especially when correlated with clinical presentation, angiographic ﬁndings, and ultimate outcome.

REFERENCES
1. Alahdab F, Wang AT, Elraiyah TA, Malgor RD, Rizvi AZ, Lane MA,
et al. A systematic review for the screening for peripheral arterial
disease in asymptomatic patients. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:42S-53S.
2. Malgor RD, Alalahdab F, Elraiyah TA, Rizvi AZ, Lane MA,
Prokop LJ, et al. A systematic review of treatment of intermittent
claudication in the lower extremities. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:54S-73S.
3. Gloviczki P, Comerota AJ, Dalsing MC, Eklof BG, Gillespie DL,
Gloviczki ML, et al. The care of patients with varicose veins and
associated chronic venous diseases: clinical practice guidelines of the
Society for Vascular Surgery and the American Venous Forum. J Vasc
Surg 2011;53(5 Suppl):2S-48S.
4. Elliott BM. Society for Vascular Surgery. Conﬂict of interest and the
Society for Vascular Surgery. J Vasc Surg 2011;54(3 Suppl):3-11S.
5. Fowkes FG, Rudan D, Rudan I, Aboyans V, Denenberg JO,
McDermott MM, et al. Comparison of global estimates of prevalence
and risk factors for peripheral artery disease in 2000 and 2010: a
systematic review and analysis. Lancet 2013;382:1329-40.
6. Criqui MH, Langer RD, Fronek A, Feigelson HS, Klauber MR,
McCann TJ, et al. Mortality over a period of 10 years in patients with
peripheral arterial disease. N Engl J Med 1992;326:381-6.
7. Hirsch AT, Hartman L, Town RJ, Virnig BA. National health care
costs of peripheral arterial disease in the Medicare population. Vasc
Med 2008;13:209-15.
8. Selvin E, Erlinger TP. Prevalence of and risk factors for peripheral
arterial disease in the United States: results from the National Health

and Nutrition Examination Survey, 1999-2000. Circulation
2004;110:738-43.
9. Norgren L, Hiatt WR, Dormandy JA, Nehler MR, Harris KA,
Fowkes FG. Inter-Society Consensus for the Management of Peripheral
Arterial Disease (TASC II). J Vasc Surg 2007;45(Suppl S):S5-67.
10. Mahoney EM, Wang K, Keo HH, Duval S, Smolderen KG,
Cohen DJ, et al. Vascular hospitalization rates and costs in patients
with peripheral artery disease in the United States. Circ Cardiovasc
Qual Outcomes 2010;3:642-51.
11. Hirsch AT, Criqui MH, Treat-Jacobson D, Regensteiner JG,
Creager MA, Olin JW, et al. Peripheral arterial disease detection,
awareness, and treatment in primary care. JAMA 2001;286:1317-24.
12. Fowkes FG, Housley E, Cawood EH, Macintyre CC, Ruckley CV,
Prescott RJ. Edinburgh Artery Study: prevalence of asymptomatic and
symptomatic peripheral arterial disease in the general population. Int J
Epidemiol 1991;20:384-92.
13. Dawber TR, Kannel WB, Revotskie N, Stokes J 3rd, Kagan A,
Gordon T. Some factors associated with the development of coronary heart disease: six years’ follow-up experience in the Framingham
study. Am J Public Health Nations Health 1959;49:1349-56.
14. Smith SC Jr, Milani RV, Arnett DK, Crouse JR 3rd, McDermott MM,
Ridker PM, et al. Atherosclerotic Vascular Disease Conference: Writing
Group II: risk factors. Circulation 2004;109:2613-6.
15. Murabito JM, D’Agostino RB, Silbershatz H, Wilson WF. Intermittent claudication. A risk proﬁle from The Framingham Heart Study.
Circulation 1997;96:44-9.
16. Zelis R, Mason DT, Braunwald E, Levy RI. Effects of hyperlipoproteinemias and their treatment on the peripheral circulation.
J Clin Invest 1970;49:1007-15.
17. Couch NP. On the arterial consequences of smoking. J Vasc Surg
1986;3:807-12.
18. Al-Delaimy WK, Merchant AT, Rimm EB, Willett WC,
Stampfer MJ, Hu FB. Effect of type 2 diabetes and its duration on
the risk of peripheral arterial disease among men. Am J Med
2004;116:236-40.
19. Kullo IJ, Bailey KR, Kardia SL, Mosley TH Jr, Boerwinkle E,
Turner ST. Ethnic differences in peripheral arterial disease in the
NHLBI Genetic Epidemiology Network of Arteriopathy (GENOA)
study. Vasc Med 2003;8:237-42.
20. O’Hare AM, Vittinghoff E, Hsia J, Shlipak MG. Renal insufﬁciency
and the risk of lower extremity peripheral arterial disease: results from
the Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study (HERS). J Am
Soc Nephrol 2004;15:1046-51.
21. Graham IM, Daly LE, Refsum HM, Robinson K, Brattstrom LE,
Ueland PM, et al. Plasma homocysteine as a risk factor for vascular
disease. The European Concerted Action Project. JAMA 1997;277:
1775-81.
22. Welch GN, Loscalzo J. Homocysteine and atherothrombosis. N Engl
J Med 1998;338:1042-50.
23. Ridker PM, Buring JE, Shih J, Matias M, Hennekens CH. Prospective study of C-reactive protein and the risk of future cardiovascular events among apparently healthy women. Circulation
1998;98:731-3.

34S Conte and Pomposelli et al

24. Ridker P, Stampfer MJ, Rifai N. Novel risk factors for atherosclerosis:
a comparison of C-reactive protein, ﬁbrinogen, homocysteine, lipoprotein (a), and standard cholesterol screening as predictors of peripheral arterial disease. JAMA 2001;285:2481-5.
25. Wilson AM, Shin DS, Weatherby C, Harada RK, Ng MK, Nair N,
et al. Asymmetric dimethylarginine correlates with measures of
disease severity, major adverse cardiovascular events and all-cause
mortality in patients with peripheral arterial disease. Vasc Med
2010;15:267-74.
26. Wilson AM, Kimura E, Harada RK, Nair N, Narasimhan B, Meng XY,
et al. Beta2-microglobulin as a biomarker in peripheral arterial disease:
proteomic proﬁling and clinical studies. Circulation 2007;116:1396-403.
27. Hiatt WR, Zakharyan A, Fung ET, Crutcher G, Smith A, Stanford C,
et al. A validated biomarker panel to identify peripheral artery disease.
Vasc Med 2012;17:386-93.
28. Joosten MM, Pai JK, Bertoia ML, Gansevoort RT, Bakker SJ,
Cooke JP, et al. b2-microglobulin, cystatin C, and creatinine and risk
of symptomatic peripheral artery disease. J Am Heart Assoc 2014;3:
e000803.
29. Cheng CH, Chen YS, Shu KH, Chang HR, Chou MC. Higher serum
levels of soluble intracellular cell adhesion molecule-1 and soluble
vascular cell adhesion molecule predict peripheral artery disease in
haemodialysis patients. Nephrology (Carlton) 2012;17:718-24.
30. Gardner AW, Parker DE, Montgomery PS, Sosnowska D,
Casanegra AI, Esponda OL, et al. Impaired vascular endothelial
growth factor a and inﬂammation in patients with peripheral artery
disease. Angiology 2014;65:683-90.
31. Pradhan AD, Rifai N, Ridker PM. Soluble intercellular adhesion
molecule-1, soluble vascular adhesion molecule-1, and the development of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease in men. Circulation
2002;106:820-5.
32. McDermott MM, Liu K, Ferrucci L, Tian L, Guralnik JM, Tao H,
et al. Relation of interleukin-6 and vascular cellular adhesion
molecule-1 levels to functional decline in patients with lower extremity peripheral arterial disease. Am J Cardiol 2011;107:1392-8.
33. Robertson CM, Gerry F, Fowkes R, Price JF. Carotid intima-media
thickness and the prediction of vascular events. Vasc Med 2012;17:
239-48.
34. Lorenz MW, Markus HS, Bots ML, Rosvall M, Sitzer M. Prediction
of clinical cardiovascular events with carotid intima-media thickness:
a systematic review and meta-analysis. Circulation 2007;115:459-67.
35. Vita JA, Keaney JF Jr. Endothelial function: a barometer for cardiovascular risk? Circulation 2002;106:640-2.
36. Gokce N, Keaney JF Jr, Hunter LM, Watkins MT, Nedeljkovic ZS,
Menzoian JO, et al. Predictive value of noninvasively determined
endothelial dysfunction for long-term cardiovascular events in patients
with peripheral vascular disease. J Am Coll Cardiol 2003;41:1769-75.
37. Corretti MC, Anderson TJ, Benjamin EJ, Celermajer D,
Charbonneau F, Creager MA, et al. Guidelines for the ultrasound
assessment of endothelial-dependent ﬂow-mediated vasodilation of
the brachial artery: a report of the International Brachial Artery
Reactivity Task Force. J Am Coll Cardiol 2002;39:257-65.
38. Aboyans V, Criqui MH, Abraham P, Allison MA, Creager MA,
Diehm C, et al. Measurement and interpretation of the ankle-brachial
index: a scientiﬁc statement from the American Heart Association.
Circulation 2012;126:2890-909.
39. Lin JS, Olson CM, Johnson ES, Whitlock EP. The ankle-brachial
index for peripheral artery disease screening and cardiovascular disease prediction among asymptomatic adults: a systematic evidence
review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med
2013;159:333-41.
40. Sakurai T, Matsushita M, Nishikimi N, Nimura Y. Effect of walking
distance on the change in ankle-brachial pressure index in patients with
intermittent claudication. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1997;13:486-90.
41. Hoogeveen EK, Mackaay AJ, Beks PJ, Kostense PJ, Dekker JM,
Heine RJ, et al. Evaluation of the one-minute exercise test to detect
peripheral arterial disease. Eur J Clin Invest 2008;38:290-5.
42. Carter SA. Response of ankle systolic pressure to leg exercise in mild
or questionable arterial disease. N Engl J Med 1972;287:578-82.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

43. Hirsch AT, Haskal ZJ, Hertzer NR, Bakal CW, Creager MA,
Halperin JL, et al. ACC/AHA 2005 Practice Guidelines for the
management of patients with peripheral arterial disease (lower
extremity, renal, mesenteric, and abdominal aortic): a collaborative report from the American Association for Vascular Surgery/
Society for Vascular Surgery, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society for Vascular Medicine and
Biology, Society of Interventional Radiology, and the ACC/
AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to
Develop Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Peripheral Arterial Disease): endorsed by the American Association
of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation; National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute; Society for Vascular Nursing;
TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus; and Vascular Disease
Foundation. Circulation 2006;113:e463-654.
44. Rutherford RB, Lowenstein DH, Klein MF. Combining segmental
systolic pressures and plethysmography to diagnose arterial occlusive
disease of the legs. Am J Surg 1979;138:211-8.
45. Koelemay MJ, den Hartog D, Prins MH, Kromhout JG,
Legemate DA, Jacobs MJ. Diagnosis of arterial disease of the lower
extremities with duplex ultrasonography. Br J Surg 1996;83:
404-9.
46. Romano M, Mainenti PP, Imbriaco M, Amato B, Markabaoui K,
Tamburrini O, et al. Multidetector row CT angiography of the
abdominal aorta and lower extremities in patients with peripheral
arterial occlusive disease: diagnostic accuracy and interobserver
agreement. Eur J Radiol 2004;50:303-8.
47. Menke J, Larsen J. Meta-analysis: accuracy of contrast-enhanced
magnetic resonance angiography for assessing steno-occlusions in
peripheral arterial disease. Ann Intern Med 2010;153:325-34.
48. Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for peripheral artery disease and cardiovascular disease risk assessment with
the ankle-brachial index in adults: U.S. Preventive Services Task
Force recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2013;159:
342-8.
49. Fowkes FG, Murray GD, Butcher I, Heald CL, Lee RJ,
Chambless LE, et al. Ankle brachial index combined with Framingham Risk Score to predict cardiovascular events and mortality: a metaanalysis. JAMA 2008;300:197-208.
50. Criqui MH, McClelland RL, McDermott MM, Allison MA,
Blumenthal RS, Aboyans V, et al. The ankle-brachial index and incident cardiovascular events in the MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of
Atherosclerosis). J Am Coll Cardiol 2010;56:1506-12.
51. Rooke TW, Hirsch AT, Misra S, Sidawy AN, Beckman JA,
Findeiss LK, et al. 2011 ACCF/AHA focused update of the guideline
for the management of patients with peripheral artery disease
(updating the 2005 guideline): a report of the American College of
Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on
Practice Guidelines: developed in collaboration with the Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for
Vascular Surgery. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:e32-58.
52. Force USPST; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for
peripheral arterial disease: recommendation statement. Am Fam
Physician 2006;73:497-500.
53. Fowkes FG, Housley E, Riemersma RA, Macintyre CC, Cawood EH,
Prescott RJ, et al. Smoking, lipids, glucose intolerance, and blood
pressure as risk factors for peripheral atherosclerosis compared with
ischemic heart disease in the Edinburgh Artery Study. Am J Epidemiol
1992;135:331-40.
54. Fowler B, Jamrozik K, Norman P, Allen Y, Wilkinson E. Improving
maximum walking distance in early peripheral arterial disease: randomised controlled trial. Aust J Physiother 2002;48:269-75.
55. Fowkes FG, Price JF, Stewart MC, Butcher I, Leng GC, Pell AC,
et al. Aspirin for prevention of cardiovascular events in a general
population screened for a low ankle brachial index: a randomized
controlled trial. JAMA 2010;303:841-8.
56. Heart Protection Study Collaborative Group. MRC/BHF Heart
Protection Study of cholesterol lowering with simvastatin in 20,536

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

high-risk individuals: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet
2002;360:7-22.
57. McDermott MM, Guralnik JM, Greenland P, Pearce WH,
Criqui MH, Liu K, et al. Statin use and leg functioning in patients
with and without lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease. Circulation 2003;107:757-61.
58. Stone NJ, Robinson JG, Lichtenstein AH, Bairey Merz CN,
Blum CB, Eckel RH, et al. 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the
treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/
American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2014;129(25 Suppl 2):S1-45.
59. McDermott MM, Fried L, Simonsick E, Ling S, Guralnik JM.
Asymptomatic peripheral arterial disease is independently associated
with impaired lower extremity functioning: the women’s health and
aging study. Circulation 2000;101:1007-12.
60. Mohler ER 3rd, Bundens W, Denenberg J, Medenilla E, Hiatt WR,
Criqui MH. Progression of asymptomatic peripheral artery disease
over 1 year. Vasc Med 2012;17:10-6.
61. Singer A, Rob C. The fate of the claudicator. Br Med J 1960;2:633-6.
62. McDermott MM, Greenland P, Liu K, Guralnik JM, Criqui MH,
Dolan NC, et al. Leg symptoms in peripheral arterial disease: associated clinical characteristics and functional impairment. JAMA
2001;286:1599-606.
63. McDermott MM, Tian L, Liu K, Guralnik JM, Ferrucci L, Tan J,
et al. Prognostic value of functional performance for mortality in
patients with peripheral artery disease. J Am Coll Cardiol 2008;51:
1482-9.
64. McDermott MM, Mehta S, Greenland P. Exertional leg symptoms
other than intermittent claudication are common in peripheral arterial
disease. Arch Intern Med 1999;159:387-92.
65. Faulkner KW, House AK, Castleden WM. The effect of cessation of
smoking on the accumulative survival rates of patients with symptomatic peripheral vascular disease. Med J Aust 1983;1:217-9.
66. Lassila R, Lepantalo M. Cigarette smoking and the outcome after
lower limb arterial surgery. Acta Chir Scand 1988;154:635-40.
67. Willigendael EM, Teijink JA, Bartelink ML, Peters RJ, Buller HR,
Prins MH. Smoking and the patency of lower extremity bypass grafts:
a meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:67-74.
68. Randomised trial of cholesterol lowering in 4444 patients with coronary heart disease: the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S).
Lancet 1994;344:1383-9.
69. Prevention of cardiovascular events and death with pravastatin in patients with coronary heart disease and a broad range of initial cholesterol levels. The Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic
Disease (LIPID) Study Group. N Engl J Med 1998;339:1349-57.
70. Sacks FM, Pfeffer MA, Moye LA, Rouleau JL, Rutherford JD,
Cole TG, et al. The effect of pravastatin on coronary events after
myocardial infarction in patients with average cholesterol levels.
Cholesterol and Recurrent Events Trial investigators. N Engl J Med
1996;335:1001-9.
71. Grundy SM, Cleeman JI, Merz CN, Brewer HB Jr, Clark LT,
Hunninghake DB, et al. Implications of recent clinical trials for the
National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III
guidelines. Circulation 2004;110:227-39.
72. Mohler ER 3rd, Hiatt WR, Creager MA. Cholesterol reduction with
atorvastatin improves walking distance in patients with peripheral
arterial disease. Circulation 2003;108:1481-6.
73. Mondillo S, Ballo P, Barbati R, Guerrini F, Ammaturo T,
Agricola E, et al. Effects of simvastatin on walking performance
and symptoms of intermittent claudication in hypercholesterolemic
patients with peripheral vascular disease. Am J Med 2003;114:
359-64.
74. Murphy TP, Cutlip DE, Regensteiner JG, Mohler ER, Cohen DJ,
Reynolds MR, et al. Supervised exercise versus primary stenting for
claudication resulting from aortoiliac peripheral artery disease: sixmonth outcomes from the claudication: exercise versus endoluminal revascularization (CLEVER) study. Circulation 2012;125:
130-9.

Conte and Pomposelli et al 35S

75. Elhadd TA, Jung RT, Newton RW, Stonebridge PA, Belch JJ. Incidence of asymptomatic peripheral arterial occlusive disease in diabetic
patients attending a hospital clinic. Adv Exp Med Biol 1997;428:
45-8.
76. Psaty BM, Smith NL, Siscovick DS, Koepsell TD, Weiss NS,
Heckbert SR, et al. Health outcomes associated with antihypertensive
therapies used as ﬁrst-line agents. A systematic review and metaanalysis. JAMA 1997;277:739-45.
77. Radack K, Deck C. Beta-adrenergic blocker therapy does not worsen
intermittent claudication in subjects with peripheral arterial disease. A
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Arch Intern Med
1991;151:1769-76.
78. Gustafsson F, Torp-Pedersen C, Kober L, Hildebrandt P. Effect
of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition after acute
myocardial infarction in patients with arterial hypertension.
TRACE Study Group, Trandolapril Cardiac Event. J Hypertens
1997;15:793-8.
79. Pfeffer MA, Braunwald E, Moye LA, Basta L, Brown EJ Jr,
Cuddy TE, et al. Effect of captopril on mortality and morbidity in
patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction.
Results of the survival and ventricular enlargement trial. The SAVE
Investigators. N Engl J Med 1992;327:669-77.
80. Yusuf S, Sleight P, Pogue J, Bosch J, Davies R, Dagenais G. Effects
of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, ramipril, on cardiovascular events in high-risk patients. The Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation Study Investigators. N Engl J Med 2000;342:
145-53.
81. Antithrombotic Trialists’ Collaboration. Collaborative meta-analysis
of randomised trials of antiplatelet therapy for prevention of death,
myocardial infarction, and stroke in high risk patients. BMJ 2002;324:
71-86.
82. CAPRIE Steering Committee. A randomised, blinded, trial of
clopidogrel versus aspirin in patients at risk of ischaemic events
(CAPRIE). CAPRIE Steering Committee. Lancet 1996;348:
1329-39.
83. Yusuf S, Zhao F, Mehta SR, Chrolavicius S, Tognoni G, Fox KK.
Effects of clopidogrel in addition to aspirin in patients with acute
coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation. N Engl J Med
2001;345:494-502.
84. Berger PB, Bhatt DL, Fuster V, Steg PG, Fox KA, Shao M, et al.
Bleeding complications with dual antiplatelet therapy among patients
with stable vascular disease or risk factors for vascular disease: results
from the Clopidogrel for High Atherothrombotic Risk and Ischemic
Stabilization, Management, and Avoidance (CHARISMA) trial. Circulation 2010;121:2575-83.
85. Efﬁcacy of oral anticoagulants compared with aspirin after
infrainguinal bypass surgery (The Dutch Bypass Oral Anticoagulants or Aspirin Study): a randomised trial. Lancet 2000;355:
346-51.
86. Anand SS, Yusuf S. Oral anticoagulant therapy in patients with coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis. JAMA 1999;282:2058-67.
87. Lowering blood homocysteine with folic acid based supplements:
meta-analysis of randomised trials. Homocysteine Lowering Trialists’
Collaboration. BMJ 1998;316:894-8.
88. VITATOPS Trial Study Group. The VITATOPS (Vitamins to Prevent Stroke) Trial: rationale and design of an international, large,
simple, randomised trial of homocysteine-lowering multivitamin
therapy in patients with recent transient ischaemic attack or stroke.
Cerebrovasc Dis 2002;13:120-6.
89. WENBIT - Western Norway B Vitamin Intervention Trial. Available at: clinicaltrials.gov/show/nct00354081. Accessed June 21,
2014.
90. Hood SC, Moher D, Barber GG. Management of intermittent claudication with pentoxifylline: meta-analysis of randomized controlled
trials. CMAJ 1996;155:1053-9.
91. Porter JM, Cutler BS, Lee BY, Reich T, Reichle FA, et al. Pentoxifylline
efﬁcacy in the treatment of intermittent claudication: multicenter
controlled double-blind trial with objective assessment of chronic
occlusive arterial disease patients. Am Heart J 1982;104:66-72.

36S Conte and Pomposelli et al

92. Robless P, Mikhailidis DP, Stansby GP. Cilostazol for peripheral
arterial disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2008;(1):CD003748.
93. De Backer T, Vander Stichele R, Lehert P, Van Bortel L. Naftidrofuryl for intermittent claudication: meta-analysis based on individual patient data. BMJ 2009;338:b603.
94. de Backer TL, Vander Stichele R, Lehert P, Van Bortel L. Naftidrofuryl for intermittent claudication. Cochrane Database Syst Rev
2012;12(1):CD001368.
95. Salhiyyah K, Senanayake E, Abdel-Hadi M, Booth A, Michaels JA.
Pentoxifylline for intermittent claudication. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2012;1:CD005262.
96. Dawson DL, Cutler BS, Hiatt WR, Hobson RW 2nd,
Martin JD, Bortey EB, et al. A comparison of cilostazol and
pentoxifylline for treating intermittent claudication. Am J Med
2000;109:523-30.
97. Effects of ramipril on cardiovascular and microvascular outcomes in
people with diabetes mellitus: results of the HOPE study and
MICRO-HOPE substudy. Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation
Study Investigators. Lancet 2000;355:253-9.
98. Ahimastos AA, Walker PJ, Askew C, Leicht A, Pappas E,
Blombery P, et al. Effect of ramipril on walking times and quality of
life among patients with peripheral artery disease and intermittent
claudication: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2013;309:
453-60.
99. Brass EP, Koster D, Hiatt WR, Amato A. A systematic review and
meta-analysis of propionyl-L-carnitine effects on exercise performance
in patients with claudication. Vasc Med 2013;18:3-12.
100. Delaney CL, Spark JI, Thomas J, Wong YT, Chan LT,
Miller MD. A systematic review to evaluate the effectiveness of
carnitine supplementation in improving walking performance
among individuals with intermittent claudication. Atherosclerosis
2013;229:1-9.
101. Watson L, Ellis B, Leng GC. Exercise for intermittent claudication.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2008;(4):CD000990.
102. Gardner AW, Forrester L, Smith GV. Altered gait proﬁle in subjects
with peripheral arterial disease. Vasc Med 2001;6:31-4.
103. American College of Sports Medicine Position Stand and American
Heart Association. Recommendations for cardiovascular screening,
stafﬁng, and emergency policies at health/ﬁtness facilities. Med Sci
Sports Exerc 1998;30:1009-18.
104. Aung PP, Maxwell HG, Jepson RG, Price JF, Leng GC. Lipidlowering for peripheral arterial disease of the lower limb. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2007;(4):CD000123.
105. Hemmingsen B, Lund SS, Gluud C, Vaag A, Almdal TP,
Hemmingsen C, et al. Targeting intensive glycaemic control versus
targeting conventional glycaemic control for type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013;11:CD008143.
106. Wong PF, Chong LY, Mikhailidis DP, Robless P, Stansby G. Antiplatelet agents for intermittent claudication. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2011;(11):CD001272.
107. Stevens JW, Simpson E, Harnan S, Squires H, Meng Y, Thomas S,
et al. Systematic review of the efﬁcacy of cilostazol, naftidrofuryl oxalate and pentoxifylline for the treatment of intermittent claudication.
Br J Surg 2012;99:1630-8.
108. Gardner AW, Poehlman ET. Exercise rehabilitation programs for the
treatment of claudication pain. A meta-analysis. JAMA 1995;274:
975-80.
109. Hiatt WR, Wolfel EE, Meier RH, Regensteiner JG. Superiority of
treadmill walking exercise versus strength training for patients with
peripheral arterial disease. Implications for the mechanism of the
training response. Circulation 1994;90:1866-74.
110. Gardner AW, Montgomery PS, Flinn WR, Katzel LI. The effect
of exercise intensity on the response to exercise rehabilitation in
patients with intermittent claudication. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:
702-9.
111. Carter SA, Hamel ER, Paterson JM, Snow CJ, Mymin D. Walking
ability and ankle systolic pressures: observations in patients with
intermittent claudication in a short-term walking exercise program.
J Vasc Surg 1989;10:642-9.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

112. Patterson RB, Pinto B, Marcus B, Colucci A, Braun T, Roberts M.
Value of a supervised exercise program for the therapy of arterial
claudication. J Vasc Surg 1997;25:312-8; discussion: 318-9.
113. Mouser MJ, Zlabek JA, Ford CL, Mathiason MA. Community trial of
home-based exercise therapy for intermittent claudication. Vasc Med
2009;14:103-7.
114. Gardner AW, Parker DE, Montgomery PS, Scott KJ, Blevins SM.
Efﬁcacy of quantiﬁed home-based exercise and supervised exercise in
patients with intermittent claudication: a randomized controlled trial.
Circulation 2011;123:491-8.
115. Ahimastos AA, Pappas EP, Buttner PG, Walker PJ, Kingwell BA,
Golledge J. A meta-analysis of the outcome of endovascular and
noninvasive therapies in the treatment of intermittent claudication.
J Vasc Surg 2011;54:1511-21.
116. Frans FA, Bipat S, Reekers JA, Legemate DA, Koelemay MJ. SUPERvised exercise therapy or immediate PTA for intermittent claudication in patients with an iliac artery obstructionda multicentre
randomised controlled trial; SUPER study design and rationale. Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2012;43:466-71.
117. Spronk S, Bosch JL, den Hoed PT, Veen HF, Pattynama PM,
Hunink MG. Intermittent claudication: clinical effectiveness of
endovascular revascularization versus supervised hospital-based exercise trainingdrandomized controlled trial. Radiology 2009;250:
586-95.
118. Kruidenier LM, Nicolai SP, Rouwet EV, Peters RJ, Prins MH,
Teijink JA. Additional supervised exercise therapy after a percutaneous
vascular intervention for peripheral arterial disease: a randomized
clinical trial. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2011;22:961-8.
119. Badger SA, Soong CV, O’Donnell ME, Boreham CA, McGuigan KE.
Beneﬁts of a supervised exercise program after lower limb bypass
surgery. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2007;41:27-32.
120. Lundgren F, Dahllof AG, Lundholm K, Schersten T, Volkmann R.
Intermittent claudicationdsurgical reconstruction or physical
training? A prospective randomized trial of treatment efﬁciency. Ann
Surg 1989;209:346-55.
121. Fokkenrood HJ, Bendermacher BL, Lauret GJ, Willigendael EM,
Prins MH, Teijink JA. Supervised exercise therapy versus nonsupervised exercise therapy for intermittent claudication. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2013;8:CD005263.
122. Kannel WB, Skinner JJ Jr, Schwartz MJ, Shurtleff D. Intermittent
claudication. Incidence in the Framingham Study. Circulation
1970;41:875-83.
123. Feinglass J, McCarthy WJ, Slavensky R, Manheim LM, Martin GJ.
Effect of lower extremity blood pressure on physical functioning in
patients who have intermittent claudication. The Chicago Claudication Outcomes Research Group. J Vasc Surg 1996;24:503-11;
discussion: 511-2.
124. Myers SA, Johanning JM, Stergiou N, Lynch TG, Longo GM,
Pipinos II. Claudication distances and the Walking Impairment
Questionnaire best describe the ambulatory limitations in patients
with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:
550-5.
125. Mays RJ, Casserly IP, Kohrt WM, Ho PM, Hiatt WR, Nehler MR,
et al. Assessment of functional status and quality of life in claudication.
J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1410-21.
126. Leng GC, Fowler B, Ernst E. Exercise for intermittent claudication.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2000;(2):CD000990.
127. Regensteiner JG, Ware JE Jr, McCarthy WJ, Zhang P, Forbes WP,
Heckman J, et al. Effect of cilostazol on treadmill walking,
community-based walking ability, and health-related quality of life in
patients with intermittent claudication due to peripheral arterial disease: meta-analysis of six randomized controlled trials. J Am Geriatr
Soc 2002;50:1939-46.
128. McGlothlin AE, Lewis RJ. Minimal clinically important difference:
deﬁning what really matters to patients. JAMA 2014;312:1342-3.
129. Adriaensen ME, Kock MC, Stijnen T, van Sambeek MR, van Urk H,
Pattynama PM, et al. Peripheral arterial disease: therapeutic conﬁdence of CT versus digital subtraction angiography and effects on
additional imaging recommendations. Radiology 2004;233:385-91.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

130. Catalano C, Fraioli F, Laghi A, Napoli A, Bezzi M, Pediconi F, et al.
Infrarenal aortic and lower-extremity arterial disease: diagnostic performance of multi-detector row CT angiography. Radiology
2004;231:555-63.
131. Holland GA, Dougherty L, Carpenter JP, Golden MA,
Gilfeather M, Slossman F, et al. Breath-hold ultrafast threedimensional gadolinium-enhanced MR angiography of the aorta
and the renal and other visceral abdominal arteries. AJR Am J
Roentgenol 1996;166:971-81.
132. Rosfors S, Eriksson M, Hoglund N, Johansson G. Duplex ultrasound
in patients with suspected aorto-iliac occlusive disease. Eur J Vasc
Surg 1993;7:513-7.
133. Ascher E, Marks NA, Hingorani AP, Schutzer RW, Mutyala M.
Duplex-guided endovascular treatment for occlusive and stenotic
lesions of the femoral-popliteal arterial segment: a comparative
study in the ﬁrst 253 cases. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:1230-7; discussion: 1237-8.
134. Upchurch GR, Dimick JB, Wainess RM, Eliason JL, Henke PK,
Cowan JA, et al. Diffusion of new technology in health care: the case
of aorto-iliac occlusive disease. Surgery 2004;136:812-8.
135. Galaria II, Davies MG. Percutaneous transluminal revascularization for iliac occlusive disease: long-term outcomes in TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus A and B lesions. Ann Vasc Surg
2005;19:352-60.
136. Schurmann K, Mahnken A, Meyer J, Haage P, Chalabi K, Peters I,
et al. Long-term results 10 years after iliac arterial stent placement.
Radiology 2002;224:731-8.
137. Bosch JL, Hunink MG. Meta-analysis of the results of percutaneous
transluminal angioplasty and stent placement for aortoiliac occlusive
disease. Radiology 1997;204:87-96.
138. Ye W, Liu CW, Ricco JB, Mani K, Zeng R, Jiang J. Early and late
outcomes of percutaneous treatment of TransAtlantic Inter-Society
Consensus class C and D aorto-iliac lesions. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:
1728-37.
139. Indes JE, Pfaff MJ, Farrokhyar F, Brown H, Hashim P, Cheung K,
et al. Clinical outcomes of 5358 patients undergoing direct open
bypass or endovascular treatment for aortoiliac occlusive disease: a
systematic review and meta-analysis. J Endovasc Ther 2013;20:
443-55.
140. Carnevale FC, De Blas M, Merino S, Egana JM, Caldas JG. Percutaneous endovascular treatment of chronic iliac artery occlusion.
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2004;27:447-52.
141. Mwipatayi BP, Thomas S, Wong J, Temple SE, Vijayan V, Jackson M,
et al. A comparison of covered vs bare expandable stents for the
treatment of aortoiliac occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:
1561-70.
142. Rzucidlo EM, Powell RJ, Zwolak RM, Fillinger MF, Walsh DB,
Schermerhorn ML, et al. Early results of stent-grafting to treat diffuse
aortoiliac occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:1175-80.
143. Huded CP, Goodney PP, Powell RJ, Nolan BW, Rzucidlo EM,
Simone ST, et al. The impact of adjunctive iliac stenting on femoralfemoral bypass in contemporary practice. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:
739-45.
144. Chang RW, Goodney PP, Baek JH, Nolan BW, Rzucidlo EM, et al.
Long-term results of combined common femoral endarterectomy and
iliac stenting/stent grafting for occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg
2008;48:362-7.
145. Brewster DC. Clinical and anatomical considerations for surgery in
aortoiliac disease and results of surgical treatment. Circulation
1991;83(2 Suppl):I42-52.
146. Rutherford RB. Aortobifemoral bypass, the gold standard: technical
considerations. Semin Vasc Surg 1994;7:11-6.
147. Hallisey MJ, Meranze SG, Parker BC, Rholl KS, Miller WJ,
Katzen BT, et al. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the
abdominal aorta. J Vasc Interv Radiol 1994;5:679-87.
148. Feugier P, Toursarkissian B, Chevalier JM, Favre JP. Endovascular
treatment of isolated atherosclerotic stenosis of the infrarenal
abdominal aorta: long-term outcome. Ann Vasc Surg 2003;17:
375-85.

Conte and Pomposelli et al 37S

149. Kim TH, Ko YG, Kim U, Kim JS, Choi D, Hong MK, et al. Outcomes of endovascular treatment of chronic total occlusion of the
infrarenal aorta. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1542-9.
150. Moise MA, Alvarez-Tostado JA, Clair DG, Greenberg RK, Lyden SP,
Srivastava SD, et al. Endovascular management of chronic infrarenal
aortic occlusion. J Endovasc Ther 2009;16:84-92.
151. Lastovickova J, Peregrin JH. Primary self-expandable nitinol stent
placement in focal lesions of infrarenal abdominal aorta: long term
results. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2008;31:43-8.
152. Bruijnen RC, Grimme FA, Horsch AD, Van Oostayen JA,
Zeebregts CJ, Reijnen MM. Primary balloon expandable
polytetraﬂuoroethylene-covered stenting of focal infrarenal aortic
occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:674-8.
153. Sharafuddin MJ, Hoballah JJ, Kresowik TF, Sharp WJ. Kissing stent
reconstruction of the aortoiliac bifurcation. Perspect Vasc Surg
Endovasc Ther 2008;20:50-60.
154. Yilmaz S, Sindel T, Golbasi I, Turkay C, Mete A, Luleci E. Aortoiliac
kissing stents: long-term results and analysis of risk factors affecting
patency. J Endovasc Ther 2006;13:291-301.
155. Burke CR, Henke PK, Hernandez R, Rectenwald JE,
Krishnamurthy V, Englesbe MJ, et al. A contemporary comparison of
aortofemoral bypass and aortoiliac stenting in the treatment of aortoiliac occlusive disease. Ann Vasc Surg 2010;24:4-13.
156. Kashyap VS, Pavkov ML, Bena JF, Sarac TP, O’Hara PJ, Lyden SP,
et al. The management of severe aortoiliac occlusive disease: endovascular therapy rivals open reconstruction. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:
1451-7. 1457 e1-1457 e3.
157. de Vries SO, Hunink MG. Results of aortic bifurcation grafts for aortoiliac occlusive disease: a meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg 1997;26:558-69.
158. Humphries MD, Armstrong E, Laird J, Paz J, Pevec W. Outcomes of
covered versus bare-metal balloon-expandable stents for aortoiliac
occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:337-44.
159. Ruggiero NJ 2nd, Jaff MR. The current management of aortic,
common iliac, and external iliac artery disease: basic data underlying clinical decision making. Ann Vasc Surg 2011;25:990-1003.
160. Ichihashi S, Higashiura W, Itoh H, Sakaguchi S, Kichikawa K. Iliac
artery stent placement relieves claudication in patients with iliac and
superﬁcial femoral artery lesions. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol
2013;36:623-8.
161. Soga Y, Iida O, Kawasaki D, Yamauchi Y, Suzuki K, Hirano K, et al.
Contemporary outcomes after endovascular treatment for aorto-iliac
artery disease. Circ J 2012;76:2697-704.
162. Bechter-Hugl B, Falkensammer J, Gorny O, Greiner A, Chemelli A,
Fraedrich G. The inﬂuence of gender on patency rates after iliac artery
stenting. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:1588-96.
163. Bonvini RF, Rastan A, Sixt S, Beschorner U, Noory E, Schwarz T,
et al. Angioplasty and provisional stent treatment of common femoral
artery lesions. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2013;24:175-83.
164. Baumann F, Ruch M, Willenberg T, Dick F, Do DD, Keo HH, et al.
Endovascular treatment of common femoral artery obstructions.
J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1000-6.
165. Paris CL, White CJ, Collins TJ, Jenkins JS, Reilly JP, Grise MA, et al.
Catheter-based therapy of common femoral artery atherosclerotic
disease. Vasc Med 2011;16:109-12.
166. Chiu KW, Davies RS, Nightingale PG, Bradbury AW, Adam DJ.
Review of direct anatomical open surgical management of atherosclerotic aorto-iliac occlusive disease. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2010;39:460-71.
167. Jaquinandi V, Picquet J, Saumet JL, Benharash P, Leftheriotis G,
Abraham P. Functional assessment at the buttock level of the effect of
aortobifemoral bypass surgery. Ann Surg 2008;247:869-76.
168. Juleff RS, Brown OW, McKain MM, Glover JL, Bendick PJ. The
inﬂuence of competitive ﬂow on graft patency. J Cardiovasc Surg
(Torino) 1992;33:415-9.
169. Pierce GE, Turrentine M, Stringﬁeld S, Iliopoulos J, Hardin CA,
Hermreck AS, et al. Evaluation of end-to-side v end-to-end proximal
anastomosis in aortobifemoral bypass. Arch Surg 1982;117:1580-8.
170. Brewster DC. Current controversies in the management of aortoiliac
occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 1997;25:365-79.

38S Conte and Pomposelli et al

171. Malone JM, Moore WS, Goldstone J. Life expectancy following
aortofemoral arterial grafting. Surgery 1977;81:551-5.
172. Morris GC Jr, Edwards E, Cooley DA, Crawford ES, De Bakey ME.
Surgical importance of profunda femoris artery. Analysis of 102 cases
with combined aortoiliac and femoropopliteal occlusive disease
treated by revascularization of deep femoral artery. Arch Surg
1961;82:32-7.
173. Inahara T. Evaluation of endarterectomy for aortoiliac and aortoiliofemoral occlusive disease. Arch Surg 1975;110:1458-64.
174. Stoney RR, Reilly LM Current therapy in vascular therapy. In:
Ernst C, Stanley JC, editors. Endarterectomy for aortoiliac occlusive
disease. Philadelphia: BC Decker; 1987.
175. Ricco JB, Probst H; French University Surgeons Association. Longterm results of a multicenter randomized study on direct versus
crossover bypass for unilateral iliac artery occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg
2008;47:45-53; discussion: 53-4.
176. Cham C, Myers KA, Scott DF, Devine TJ, Denton MJ. Extraperitoneal unilateral iliac artery bypass for chronic lower limb ischaemia.
Aust N Z J Surg 1988;58:859-63.
177. Melliere D, Desgranges P, de Wailly GW, Roudot-Thoraval F,
Allaire E, Becquemin JP. Extensive unilateral iliofemoral occlusions:
durability of four techniques of arterial reconstructions. Vascular
2004;12:285-92.
178. van der Vliet JA, Scharn DM, de Waard JW, Roumen RM, van
Roye SF, Buskens FG. Unilateral vascular reconstruction for iliac
obstructive disease. J Vasc Surg 1994;19:610-4.
179. York JW, Johnson BL, Cicchillo M, Taylor SM, Cull DL,
Kalbaugh C. Aortobiiliac bypass to the distal external iliac artery
versus aortobifemoral bypass: a matched cohort study. Am Surg
2013;79:61-6.
180. Reed AB, Conte MS, Donaldson MC, Mannick JA,
Whittemore AD, Belkin M. The impact of patient age and aortic
size on the results of aortobifemoral bypass grafting. J Vasc Surg
2003;37:1219-25.
181. Dimick JB, JA Cowan Jr, Henke PK, Wainess RM, Posner S,
Stanley JC, et al. Hospital volume-related differences in aortobifemoral bypass operative mortality in the United States. J Vasc
Surg 2003;37:970-5.
182. Brewster DC, Darling RC. Optimal methods of aortoiliac reconstruction. Surgery 1978;84:739-48.
183. Valentine RJ, Hansen ME, Myers SI, Chervu A, Clagett GP. The
inﬂuence of sex and aortic size on late patency after aortofemoral
revascularization in young adults. J Vasc Surg 1995;21:296-305;
discussion: 305-6.
184. Sumner DS, Strandness DE Jr. The hemodynamics of the femorofemoral shunt. Surg Gynecol Obstet 1972;134:629-36.
185. Rutherford RB, Patt A, Pearce WH. Extra-anatomic bypass: a closer
view. J Vasc Surg 1987;6:437-46.
186. Passman MA, Taylor LM, Moneta GL, Edwards JM, Yeager RA,
McConnell DB, et al. Comparison of axillofemoral and aortofemoral
bypass for aortoiliac occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 1996;23:263-9;
discussion: 269-71.
187. Schneider JR, Golan JF. The role of extraanatomic bypass in the
management of bilateral aortoiliac occlusive disease. Semin Vasc Surg
1994;7:35-44.
188. Jongkind V, Akkersdijk GJ, Yeung KK, Wisselink W. A systematic
review of endovascular treatment of extensive aortoiliac occlusive
disease. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:1376-83.
189. Twine CP, Coulston J, Shandall A, McLain AD. Angioplasty versus
stenting for superﬁcial femoral artery lesions. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2009;(2):CD006767.
190. Rogers JH, Laird JR. Overview of new technologies for lower extremity revascularization. Circulation 2007;116:2072-85.
191. Lee LK, Kent KC. Infrainguinal occlusive disease: endovascular
intervention is the ﬁrst line therapy. Adv Surg 2008;42:193-204.
192. Wilson SE. Trials of endovascular treatment for superﬁcial femoral
artery occlusive lesions: a call for medically managed control patients.
Ann Vasc Surg 2010;24:498-502.
193. Hunink MG, Wong JB, Donaldson MC, Meyerovitz MF,
Harrington DP. Patency results of percutaneous and surgical

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

revascularization for femoropopliteal arterial disease. Med Decis
Making 1994;14:71-81.
194. Laird JR, Katzen BT, Scheinert D, Lammer J, Carpenter J,
Buchbinder M, et al. Nitinol stent implantation versus balloon angioplasty for lesions in the superﬁcial femoral artery and proximal
popliteal artery: twelve-month results from the RESILIENT randomized trial. Circ Cardiovasc Interv 2010;3:267-76.
195. Bergeron P, Pinot JJ, Poyen V, Benichou H, Khanoyan P,
Rudondy P, et al. Long-term results with the Palmaz stent in the
superﬁcial femoral artery. J Endovasc Surg 1995;2:161-7.
196. Geraghty PJ, Mewissen MW, Jaff MR, Ansel GM. Three-year results
of the VIBRANT trial of VIABAHN endoprosthesis versus bare
nitinol stent implantation for complex superﬁcial femoral artery
occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:386-95 e4.
197. Kwa AT, Yeo KK, Laird JR. The role of stent-grafts for prevention
and treatment of restenosis. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2010;51:
579-89.
198. Ahn SS, Concepcion B. Current status of atherectomy for peripheral
arterial occlusive disease. World J Surg 1996;20:635-43.
199. Ambler GK, Radwan R, Hayes PD, Twine CP. Atherectomy for peripheral arterial disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014;3:
CD006680.
200. Zeller T, Rastan A, Sixt S, Schwarzwalder U, Schwarz T, Frank U,
et al. Long-term results after directional atherectomy of femoropopliteal lesions. J Am Coll Cardiol 2006;48:1573-8.
201. Scheinert D, Duda S, Zeller T, Krankenberg H, Ricke J, Bosiers M,
et al. The LEVANT I (Lutonix paclitaxel-coated balloon for the
prevention of femoropopliteal restenosis) trial for femoropopliteal
revascularization: ﬁrst-in-human randomized trial of low-dose drugcoated balloon versus uncoated balloon angioplasty. JACC Cardiovasc Interv 2014;7:10-9.
202. Tepe G, Zeller T, Albrecht T, Heller S, Schwarzwalder U, Beregi JP,
et al. Local delivery of paclitaxel to inhibit restenosis during angioplasty of the leg. N Engl J Med 2008;358:689-99.
203. Werk M, Langner S, Reinkensmeier B, Boettcher HF, Tepe G,
Dietz U, et al. Inhibition of restenosis in femoropopliteal arteries:
paclitaxel-coated versus uncoated balloon: femoral paclitaxel randomized pilot trial. Circulation 2008;118:1358-65.
204. Dake MD, Ansel GM, Jaff MR, Ohki T, Saxon RR, Smouse HB, et al.
Paclitaxel-eluting stents show superiority to balloon angioplasty and
bare metal stents in femoropopliteal disease: twelve-month Zilver PTX
randomized study results. Circ Cardiovasc Interv 2011;4:495-504.
205. Cioppa A, Stabile E, Popusoi G, Salemme L, Cota L, Pucciarelli A,
et al. Combined treatment of heavy calciﬁed femoro-popliteal lesions
using directional atherectomy and a paclitaxel coated balloon: oneyear single centre clinical results. Cardiovasc Revasc Med 2012;13:
219-23.
206. Hayes DJ Jr, Dougherty MJ, Calligaro KD. Management of ﬂush
superﬁcial femoral artery occlusions with combined open femoral
endarterectomy and endovascular femoral-popliteal angioplasty and
stent-grafting. Ann Vasc Surg 2011;25:559.e19-23.
207. Nishibe T, Kondo Y, Dardik A, Muto A, Koizumi J, Nishibe M.
Hybrid surgical and endovascular therapy in multifocal peripheral
TASC D lesions: up to three-year follow-up. J Cardiovasc Surg
(Torino) 2009;50:493-9.
208. Bonvini RF, Rastan A, Sixt S, Noory E, Schwarz T, Frank U, et al.
Endovascular treatment of common femoral artery disease: mediumterm outcomes of 360 consecutive procedures. J Am Coll Cardiol
2011;58:792-8.
209. McKinsey JF, Zeller T, Rocha-Singh KJ, Jaff MR, Garcia LA. Lower
extremity revascularization using directional atherectomy: 12-month
prospective results of the DEFINITIVE LE Study. JACC Cardiovasc Interv 2014;7:923-33.
210. Laird JR, Katzen BT, Scheinert D, Lammer J, Carpenter J,
Buchbinder M, et al. Nitinol stent implantation vs. balloon angioplasty for lesions in the superﬁcial femoral and proximal popliteal arteries of patients with claudication: three-year follow-up from the
RESILIENT randomized trial. J Endovasc Ther 2012;19:1-9.
211. Matsumura JS, Yamanouchi D, Goldstein JA, Pollock CW,
Bosiers M, Schultz GA, et al. The United States StuDy for

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

EvalUating EndovasculaR TreAtments of Lesions in the Superﬁcial
Femoral Artery and Proximal Popliteal By usIng the Protege EverfLex NitInol STent SYstem II (DURABILITY II). J Vasc Surg
2013;58:73-83.e1.
212. Dake MD, Ansel GM, Jaff MR, Ohki T, Saxon RR, Smouse HB, et al.
Sustained safety and effectiveness of paclitaxel-eluting stents for
femoropopliteal lesions: 2-year follow-up from the Zilver PTX randomized and single-arm clinical studies. J Am Coll Cardiol 2013;61:
2417-27.
213. Lammer J, Zeller T, Hausegger KA, Schaefer PJ, Gschwendtner M,
Mueller-Huelsbeck S, et al. Heparin-bonded covered stents versus
bare-metal stents for complex femoropopliteal artery lesions: the
randomized VIASTAR trial (Viabahn endoprosthesis with PROPATEN bioactive surface [VIA] versus bare nitinol stent in the treatment of long lesions in superﬁcial femoral artery occlusive disease).
J Am Coll Cardiol 2013;62:1320-7.
214. Johnston PC, Vartanian SM, Runge SJ, Hiramoto JS, Eichler CM,
Owens CD, et al. Risk factors for clinical failure after stent graft
treatment for femoropopliteal occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:
998-1006. 1007 e1; discussion 1006-7.
215. Gorgani F, Telis A, Narakathu N, LaBarbera M, Babaev A. Longterm outcomes of the Viabahn stent in the treatment of in-stent
restenosis in the superﬁcial femoral artery. J Invasive Cardiol
2013;25:670-4.
216. Tepe G, Laird J, Schneider P, Brodmann M, Krishnan P, Micari A,
et al. Drug-coated balloon versus standard percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for the treatment of superﬁcial femoral and/or
popliteal peripheral artery disease: 12-month results from the IN.
PACT SFA randomized trial [published online ahead of print
December 3, 2014]. Circulation pii: CIRCULATIONAHA.114.
011004.
217. Joels CS, York JW, Kalbaugh CA, Cull DL, Langan EM. Surgical
implications of early failed endovascular intervention of the superﬁcial
femoral artery. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:562-5.
218. Bradbury AW, Adam DJ, Bell J, Forbes JF, Fowkes FG, Gillespie I,
et al. Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischaemia of the Leg
(BASIL) trial: an intention-to-treat analysis of amputation-free and
overall survival in patients randomized to a bypass surgery-ﬁrst or a
balloon angioplasty-ﬁrst revascularization strategy. J Vasc Surg
2010;51(5 Suppl):5S-17S.
219. Ihnat DM, Duong ST, Taylor ZC, Leon LR, Mills JL Sr,
Goshima KR, et al. Contemporary outcomes after superﬁcial femoral
artery angioplasty and stenting: the inﬂuence of TASC classiﬁcation
and runoff score. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:967-74.
220. Werner M, Paetzold A, Banning-Eichenseer U, Scheinert S,
Piorkowski M, Ulrich M, et al. Treatment of complex atherosclerotic
femoropopliteal artery disease with a self-expanding interwoven
nitinol stent: midterm results from the Leipzig SUPERA 500 registry.
EuroIntervention 2014;10:861-8.
221. Lo RC, Darling J, Bensley RP, Giles KA, Dahlberg SE,
Hamdan AD, et al. Outcomes following infrapopliteal angioplasty
for critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:1455-63; discussion:
1463-4.
222. McDermott MM, Guralnik JM, Criqui MH, Ferrucci L, Zhao L,
Liu K, et al. Home-based walking exercise in peripheral artery disease:
12-month follow-up of the goals randomized trial. J Am Heart Assoc
2014;3:e000711.
223. Regensteiner JG, Hargarten ME, Rutherford RB, Hiatt WR. Functional beneﬁts of peripheral vascular bypass surgery for patients with
intermittent claudication. Angiology 1993;44:1-10.
224. van der Zaag ES, Legemate DA, Prins MH, Reekers JA,
Jacobs MJ. Angioplasty or bypass for superﬁcial femoral artery
disease? A randomised controlled trial. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2004;28:132-7.
225. Wolf GL, Wilson SE, Cross AP, Deupree RH, Stason WB. Surgery or
balloon angioplasty for peripheral vascular disease: a randomized
clinical trial. Principal investigators and their Associates of Veterans
Administration Cooperative Study Number 199. J Vasc Interv Radiol
1993;4:639-48.

Conte and Pomposelli et al 39S

226. Fowkes F, Leng GC. Bypass surgery for chronic lower limb ischaemia.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2008;(2):CD002000.
227. Gelin J, Jivegard L, Taft C, Karlsson J, Sullivan M, Dahllof AG, et al.
Treatment efﬁcacy of intermittent claudication by surgical intervention, supervised physical exercise training compared to no treatment
in unselected randomised patients I: one year results of functional and
physiological improvements. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2001;22:
107-13.
228. Koivunen K, Lukkarinen H. One-year prospective health-related
quality-of-life outcomes in patients treated with conservative
method, endovascular treatment or open surgery for symptomatic
lower limb atherosclerotic disease. Eur J Cardiovasc Nurs 2008;7:
247-56.
229. Mills JL. Infrainguinal disease: surgical treatment (Table 113-1). In:
Cronenwett JL, Johnston KW, editors. Rutherford’s Vascular Surgery. 8th edition. Philadelphia: Elsevier; 2014. p. 1768.
230. AbuRahma AF, Robinson PA, Holt SM. Prospective controlled study
of polytetraﬂuoroethylene versus saphenous vein in claudicant patients
with bilateral above knee femoropopliteal bypasses. Surgery
1999;126:594-601; discussion: 601-2.
231. Zannetti S, L’Italien GJ, Cambria RP. Functional outcome after
surgical treatment for intermittent claudication. J Vasc Surg 1996;24:
65-73.
232. Conte MS, Belkin M, Donaldson MC, Baum P, Mannick JA,
Whittemore AD. Femorotibial bypass for claudication: do results
justify an aggressive approach? J Vasc Surg 1995;21:873-80; discussion: 880-1.
233. Antoniou GA, Chalmers N, Georgiadis GS, Lazarides MK,
Antoniou SA, Serracino-Inglott F, et al. A meta-analysis of endovascular versus surgical reconstruction of femoropopliteal arterial disease.
J Vasc Surg 2013;57:242-53.
234. Acin F, de Haro J, Bleda S, Varela C, Esparza L. Primary nitinol
stenting in femoropopliteal occlusive disease: a meta-analysis of
randomized controlled trials. J Endovasc Ther 2012;19:585-95.
235. Katsanos K, Spiliopoulos S, Karunanithy N, Krokidis M, Sabharwal T,
Taylor P. Bayesian network meta-analysis of nitinol stents, covered
stents, drug-eluting stents, and drug-coated balloons in the femoropopliteal artery. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:1123-33 e8.
236. Brown J, Lethaby A, Maxwell H, Wawrzyniak AJ, Prins MH. Antiplatelet agents for preventing thrombosis after peripheral arterial
bypass surgery (review). The Cochran Collaboration 2011:1-32.
237. Belch JJ, Dormandy J, Biasi GM, Cairols M, Diehm C,
Eikelboom B, et al. Results of the randomized, placebo-controlled
clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid in bypass surgery for peripheral
arterial disease (CASPAR) trial. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:825-33. 833
e1-e2.
238. Sarac TP, Huber TS, Back MR, Ozaki CK, Carlton LM,
Flynn TC, et al. Warfarin improves the outcome of infrainguinal
vein bypass grafting at high risk for failure. J Vasc Surg 1998;28:
446-57.
239. Jackson MR, Johnson WC, Williford WO, Valentine RJ, Clagett GP.
The effect of anticoagulation therapy and graft selection on the
ischemic consequences of femoropopliteal bypass graft occlusion: results from a multicenter randomized clinical trial. J Vasc Surg
2002;35:292-8.
240. Robertson L, Ghouri MA, Kovacs F. Antiplatelet and anticoagulant
drugs for prevention of restenosis/reocclusion following peripheral
endovascular treatment. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012;8:
CD002071.
241. Koppensteiner R, Spring S, Amann-Vesti BR, Meier T, Pfammatter T,
Rousson V, et al. Low-molecular-weight heaprin for prevention of
restenosis after popliteal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty: a
reandomized controlled trial. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:1247-53.
242. Iida O, Nanto S, Uematsu M, Morozumi T, Kitakaze M, Nagata S.
Cilostazol reduces restenosis after endovascular therapy in patients
with femor0popliteal lesions. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:144-9.
243. Ishii H, Kumada Y, Toriyama T, Aoyama T, Takahashi H, Tanaka M,
et al. Effects of oral cilostazol 100 mg BID on long-term patency
after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in patients with

40S Conte and Pomposelli et al

femoropopliteal disease undergoing hemodialysis: a retrospective
chart review in Japanese patients. Clin Ther 2010;32:24-33.
244. Brown J, Lethaby A, Maxwell H, Wawrzyniak AJ, Prins MH. Antiplatelet agents for preventing thrombosis after peripheral arterial
bypass surgery. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2008;(4):CD000535.
245. Geraghty AJ, Welch K. Antithrombotic agents for preventing
thrombosis after infrainguinal arterial bypass surgery. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2011;(6):CD000536.
246. Davies AH, Hawdon AJ, Sydes MR, Thompson SG. Is duplex surveillance of value after leg vein bypass grafting? Principal results of the
Vein Graft Surveillance Randomised Trial (VGST). Circulation
2005;112:1985-91.
247. Lundell A, Lindblad B, Bergqvist D, Hansen F. Femoropoplitealcrural graft patency is improved by an intensive surveillance program:
a prospective randomized study. J Vasc Surg 1995;21:26-33;
discussion: 33-4.
248. Avino AJ, Bandyk DF, Gonsalves AJ, Johnson BL, Black TJ,
Zwiebel BR, et al. Surgical and endovascular intervention for
infrainguinal vein graft stenosis. J Vasc Surg 1999;29:60-70;
discussion: 70-1.
249. Mills JL, Bandyk DF, Gahtan V, Esses GE. The origin of infrainguinal
vein graft stenosis: a prospective study based on duplex surveillance.
J Vasc Surg 1995;21:16-22; discussion: 22-5.
250. Mills JL Sr, Wixon CL, James DC, Devine J, Westerband A,
Hughes JD. The natural history of intermediate and critical vein graft
stenosis: recommendations for continued surveillance or repair. J Vasc
Surg 2001;33:273-8; discussion: 278-80.
251. Nguyen LL, Conte MS, Menard MT, Gravereaux EC, Chew DK,
Donaldson MC, et al. Infrainguinal vein bypass graft revision: factors
affecting long-term outcome. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:916-23.
252. Schanzer A, Hevelone N, Owens CD, Belkin M, Bandyk DF,
Clowes AW, et al. Technical factors affecting autogenous vein graft
failure: observations from a large multicenter trial. J Vasc Surg
2007;46:1180-90; discussion: 1190.
253. Landry GJ, Moneta GL, Taylor LM Jr, Edwards JM, Yeager RA,
Porter JM. Long-term outcome of revised lower-extremity bypass
grafts. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:56-62; discussion: 62-3.
254. Nguyen LL, Moneta GL, Conte MS, Bandyk DF, Clowes AW,
Seely BL, et al. Prospective multicenter study of quality of life before
and after lower extremity vein bypass in 1404 patients with critical
limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:977-83; discussion: 983-4.
255. Sobieszczyk P, Eisenhauer A. Management of patients after endovascular interventions for peripheral artery disease. Circulation
2013;128:749-57.
256. Baril DT, Rhee RY, Kim J, Makaroun MS, Chaer RA, Marone LK.
Duplex criteria for determination of in-stent stenosis after angioplasty
and stenting of the superﬁcial femoral artery. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:
133-8; discussion: 139.
257. Mewissen MW, Kinney EV, Bandyk DF, Reifsnyder T, Seabrook GR,
Lipchik EO, et al. The role of duplex scanning versus angiography in
predicting outcome after balloon angioplasty in the femoropopliteal
artery. J Vasc Surg 1992;15:860-5; discussion: 865-6.
258. Sacks D, Robinson ML, Summers TA, Marinelli DL. The value
of duplex sonography after peripheral artery angioplasty in predicting subacute restenosis. AJR Am J Roentgenol 1994;162:
179-83.
259. Spijkerboer AM, Nass PC, de Valois JC, van der Graaf Y,
Eikelboom BC, Mali WP. Evaluation of femoropopliteal arteries with
duplex ultrasound after angioplasty. Can we predict results at one
year? Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1996;12:418-23.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

260. Humphries MD, Pevec WC, Laird JR, Yeo KK, Hedayati N,
Dawson DL. Early duplex scanning after infrainguinal endovascular
therapy. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:353-8.
261. Gray BH, Sullivan TM, Childs MB, Young JR, Olin JW. High incidence of restenosis/reocclusion of stents in the percutaneous treatment of long-segment superﬁcial femoral artery disease after
suboptimal angioplasty. J Vasc Surg 1997;25:74-83.
262. Schmidt A, Ulrich M, Winkler B, Klaefﬂing C, Bausback Y,
Braunlich S, et al. Angiographic patency and clinical outcome after
balloon-angioplasty for extensive infrapopliteal arterial disease. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2010;76:1047-54.
263. Tielbeek AV, Rietjens E, Buth J, Vroegindeweij D, Schol FP. The
value of duplex surveillance after endovascular intervention for femoropopliteal obstructive disease. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1996;12:
145-50.
264. Spijkerboer AM, Nass PC, de Valois JC, Eikelboom BC,
Overtoom TT, Beek FJ, et al. Iliac artery stenoses after percutaneous
transluminal angioplasty: follow-up with duplex ultrasonography.
J Vasc Surg 1996;23:691-7.
265. Bui TD, Mills JL Sr, Ihnat DM, Gruessner AC, Goshima KR,
Hughes JD. The natural history of duplex-detected stenosis after
femoropopliteal endovascular therapy suggests questionable clinical utility of routine duplex surveillance. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:
346-52.
266. Stewart KJ, Hiatt WR, Regensteiner JG, Hirsch AT. Exercise training
for claudication. N Engl J Med 2002;347:1941-51.
267. Criado E, Burnham SJ, Tinsley EA Jr, Johnson G Jr, Keagy BA.
Femorofemoral bypass graft: analysis of patency and factors inﬂuencing long-term outcome. J Vasc Surg 1993;18:495-504; discussion:
504-5.
268. Mii S, Eguchi D, Takenaka T, Maehara S, Tomisaki S, Sakata H. Role
of femorofemoral crossover bypass grafting for unilateral iliac
atherosclerotic disease: a comparative evaluation with anatomic
bypass. Surg Today 2005;35:453-8.
269. Muradin GS, Bosch JL, Stijnen T, Hunink MG. Balloon dilation and
stent implantation for treatment of femoropopliteal arterial disease:
meta-analysis. Radiology 2001;221:137-45.
270. Schillinger M, Sabeti S, Loewe C, Dick P, Amighi J, Mlekusch W,
et al. Balloon angioplasty versus implantation of nitinol stents in
the superﬁcial femoral artery. N Engl J Med 2006;354:1879-88.
271. Kedora J, Hohmann S, Garrett W, Munschaur C, Theune B, Gable D.
Randomized comparison of percutaneous Viabahn stent grafts vs prosthetic femoral-popliteal bypass in the treatment of superﬁcial femoral
arterial occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:10-6; discussion: 16.
272. Shackles C, Rundback JH, Herman K, David Y, Barkarma R. Above
and below knee femoropopliteal VIABAHN [published online ahead
of print September 9, 2014]. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. http://dx.
doi.org/10.1002/ccd.25666.
273. Pereira CE, Albers M, Romiti M, Brochado-Neto FC, Pereira CA.
Meta-analysis of femoropopliteal bypass grafts for lower extremity
arterial insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:510-7.
274. Klinkert P, Schepers A, Burger DH, van Bockel JH, Breslau PJ. Vein
versus polytetraﬂuoroethylene in above-knee femoropopliteal bypass
grafting: ﬁve-year results of a randomized controlled trial. J Vasc Surg
2003;37:149-55.
275. Robinson BI, Fletcher JP, Tomlinson P, Allen RD, Hazelton SJ,
Richardson AJ, et al. A prospective randomized multicentre comparison of expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene and gelatin-sealed knitted Dacron grafts for femoropopliteal bypass. Cardiovasc Surg
1999;7:214-8.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 61, Number 3S

Conte and Pomposelli et al 41S

APPENDIX
Conﬂict of interest disclosure table for the SVS Lower Extremity Guidelines Committee
Writing group member

Company relationships

First name

Last name

Afﬁliation

Michael

Conte
(Chair)

University of California,
San Francisco

MD

Yes

No

Frank

Pomposelli
St. Elizabeth’s Medical
(Co-chair)
Center

MD

No

Daniel

Clair

Cleveland Clinic
Foundation

MD

Yes

Member of the No
Board of
Directors of
TRACO LLC,
a malpractice
insurance
company.
Yes
No

Patrick

Geraghty

MD

No

No

Yes

James

McKinsey

Washington University
Medical School
Columbia University

MD

Yes

No

No

Joseph

Mills

University of Arizona
MD
Health Science Center

Yes

Yes

No

Gregory

Moneta

Oregon Health & Science MD
University

No

No

No

Richard

Powell

Dartmouth-Hitchcock
MD
Medical Center
Penn State Hershey
MD
College of Medicine
University of
MD
Massachusetts Medical
School

Yes

No

No

Amy

Reed

Andres

Schanzer

Anton

Sidawy

Hassan

Murad

George Washington
University,
Washington, D.C.
Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minn

Degree

Direct owner
of stock, stock
options, or
bonds of a
Ofﬁcer, board
company,
member, trustee,
excluding
owner or employee
diversiﬁed
Response
of a company
mutual funds
No

Consultancy, scientiﬁc
advisory committee
membership, or lecturer
for a company

Investigator for
a company,
Personal
including holding income
research grants
from
from the company patents

Cook Medical-Scientiﬁc
No
Advisory Board
Medtronic Inc-Scientiﬁc
Advisory Board-Lecturer
for Pﬁzer, Cook Medical,
Medtronic AngesConsultant
No
No

No

No

Yes
No
Boston Scientiﬁc, Cordis,
Covidien, Endologix,
Medtronic, W. L. Gore
Cook Medical inc, money is Yes
No
paid to clinic.
Covidien, Cook Medical,
No
No
Spectranetics Lecturer;
Aptus, Spectraneticsd
Scientiﬁc Advisory
Committee; Cook
Medical, Aptus DSMB
(now dissolved)d
consultant
Novadaq- Lecturer;
Novadaq
No
AngesdScientiﬁc
Advisory Committee
No
No
Participate in
industry
sponsored
clinical trials as
local
investigator.
No personal
income.
(Gore,
Bolton,
Harvest
technologies)
Anges- Lecturer & Scientiﬁc No
No
Advisory Committee
No
No
No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

MD, MPH No

No

No

Cook MedicaldI have a
Cook Medical,
No
consultant agreement in
Bolton
order to proctor
Medical,
fenestrated EVAR cases.
Abbott,
ProteondI
am our site PI
on industrysponsored
trials but I
receive no
compensation.
No
No
No

MD

No

No

No

No

No

No

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
March Supplement 2015

41S.e1 Conte and Pomposelli et al

SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL (online only).
A revised recommendation: Society for Vascular
Surgery practice guidelines for the management of
asymptomatic disease and claudication
The Society for Vascular Surgery has an established methodology1 for the development of clinical practice guidelines
that considers future emerging evidence. Changes in the evidence base necessitate subsequent updated recommendations. Recently, a report of a randomized controlled trial2
that compared ramipril to a matching placebo was retracted.3
The trial had shown that 10 mg/d of ramipril given for 24
weeks to patients with intermittent claudication (IC)
increased mean pain-free walking time, maximum walking
time, Walking Impairment Questionnaire scores and the
Physical Component Summary score. The Society guideline
published earlier this year4 had considered evidence from
this trial and suggested the use of ramipril in patients with
IC (Recommendation 4.11). The recommendation was a
weak one (ie, suggestion) because the trial was small and
the results had not been replicated in other trials with a longer
follow up period.
The Society’s committee charged with developing
guidelines for atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the lower
extremities has decided to strike recommendation 4.11 based
on the current state of evidence after retraction of this trial.
The committee notes that many patients with IC may
still beneﬁt from angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors
(ACEIs) for other conditions such as hypertension and
congestive heart failure, which are common in patients

with PAD. ACEIs remain contraindicated in individuals
with known renal artery stenosis. Further research is
needed to determine if ACEIs have a useful role in the
treatment of walking impairment or leg symptoms associated with IC.
Authors:. Michael S. Conte, MD (Co-Chair), Frank
B. Pomposelli, MD (Co-Chair), Daniel G. Clair, MD,
Patrick J. Geraghty, MD, James F. McKinsey, MD,
Joseph L. Mills, MD, Gregory L. Moneta, MD, M.
Hassan Murad, MD, Richard J. Powell, MD, Amy B.
Reed, MD, Andres Schanzer, MD, Anton N. Sidawy,
MD, MPH
REFERENCES
1. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for Vascular
Surgery including the experience with the GRADE framework. J Vasc
Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
2. Ahimastos AA, Walker PJ, Askew C, Leicht A, Pappas E, Blombery P,
et al. Effect of ramipril on walking times and quality of life among patients with peripheral artery disease and intermittent claudication: a
randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2013;309:453-60.
3. Notice of Retraction: JAMA. 2015 Sep 14. http://dx.doi.org/10.1
001/jama.2015.10811. [Epub ahead of print].
4. Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity Guidelines Writing
Group, Conte MS, Pomposelli FB, Clair DG, Geraghty PJ,
McKinsey JF, Mills JL, et al. Society for Vascular Surgery practice
guidelines for atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the lower extremities:
management of asymptomatic disease and claudication. J Vasc Surg
2015;61(3 Suppl):2S-41S.

Added October 2015

