SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY® DOCUMENTS

Endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic
injury: Clinical practice guidelines of the Society
for Vascular Surgery
W. Anthony Lee, MD,a Jon S. Matsumura, MD,b R. Scott Mitchell, MD,c Mark A. Farber, MD,d
Roy K. Greenberg, MD,e Ali Azizzadeh, MD,f Mohammad Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,g and
Ronald M. Fairman, MD,h Boca Raton, Fla; Madison, Wisc; Palo Alto, Calif; Chapel Hill, NC; Cleveland, Ohio;
Houston, Tex; Rochester, Minn; and Philadelphia, Pa
The Society for Vascular Surgery® pursued development of clinical practice guidelines for the management of traumatic
thoracic aortic injuries with thoracic endovascular aortic repair. In formulating clinical practice guidelines, the Society selected
a panel of experts and conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature. They used the Grading of
Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation methods (GRADE) to develop and present their recommendations. The systematic review included 7768 patients from 139 studies. The mortality rate was significantly lower in patients
who underwent endovascular repair, followed by open repair, and nonoperative management (9%, 19%, and 46%, respectively,
P < .01). Based on the overall very low quality of evidence, the committee suggests that endovascular repair of thoracic aortic
transection is associated with better survival and decreased risk of spinal cord ischemia, renal injury, graft, and systemic
infections compared with open repair or nonoperative management (Grade 2, Level C). The committee was also surveyed on
a variety of issues that were not specifically addressed by the meta-analysis. On these select matters, the majority opinions of the
committee suggest urgent repair following stabilization of other injuries, observation of minimal aortic defects, selective (vs
routine) revascularization in cases of left subclavian artery coverage, and that spinal drainage is not routinely required in these
cases. ( J Vasc Surg 2011;53:187-92.)

Blunt traumatic thoracic aortic injury is associated with
a high mortality rate, and has been implicated as the second
most common cause of death in trauma patients, behind
From the Christine E. Lynn Heart and Vascular Institute, Boca Raton;a Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Wisconsin, Madison;b Department of
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University, Palo Alto;c Division of Vascular
Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill;d Department of Vascular
Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland;e Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Texas Houston Medical School, Houston;f Division of
Preventive, Occupational and Aerospace Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester;g
and Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.h
Competition of interest: Dr Lee received research support and consultation fees
from Cook, Medtronic, and Bolton Medical. Dr Matsumura has grants for
research and training from Abbott, Cook, Covidien, Endologix, and W. L.
Gore. Dr Mitchell has no conflict of interest disclosures. Dr Farber received
consultant fees from W. L. Gore, Medtronic, Cook, Aptus Endosystems, and
Bolton Medical. Dr Greenberg received research support from Cook and
W. L. Gore. He has IP/License agreements with Cook. Dr Azizzadeh
received consultation fees from Medtronic and W. L. Gore. Dr Murad has no
conflict of interest disclosures. Dr Fairman received research support from
Abbott, Medtronic, Cook, Aptus, and Boston Scientific.
Presented at the 2010 Vascular Annual Meeting of the Society for Vascular
Surgery, June 10-13, 2010, Boston, Mass.
Reprint requests: W. Anthony Lee, MD, Director of Endovascular Program,
Christine E. Lynn Heart and Vascular Institute, 670 Glades Road, Suite
No 300 Boca Raton, FL 33431 (e-mail: walee@sapbc.net).
Independent peer-review and oversight has been provided by members of
the SVS Document Oversight Committee (K. Wayne Johnston, MD
(chair), Enrico Ascher, MD, Jack L. Cronenwett, MD, R. Clement
Darling, MD, Vivian Gahtan, MD, Peter Gloviczki, MD, Thomas F.
Lindsay, MD, Gregorio A. Sicard, MD).
0741-5214/$36.00
Copyright © 2011 by the Society for Vascular Surgery.
doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2010.08.027

only to intracranial hemorrhage.1,2 It has been estimated
that less than 25% of patients with such an injury live to be
evaluated in a hospital,3 and of those who do, up to 50%
will die within 24 hours.4 Given the location of injury in
50% to 70% of cases,4 conventional surgical repair typically
involves a high posterolateral thoracotomy with or without
cardiopulmonary bypass and significant blood loss, which
can negatively impact the pulmonary, cardiac, and neurologic status of the patient. Historically, open repair of
traumatic aortic injuries has been associated with a 28%
mortality rate5 and a 16% paraplegia rate.6 There has been
a risk of delayed rupture in the unrepaired thoracic transection that has been estimated to be 2% to 5%.7
Thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) is a rapidly evolving therapy in the treatment of a variety of thoracic aortic pathologies. TEVAR involves placing an endovascular stent graft into the thoracic aorta from a remote
peripheral location under imaging guidance. TEVAR offers
the potential for a durable aortic repair while avoiding the
morbidity of a thoracotomy, aortic cross clamping, and
cardiopulmonary bypass. Nevertheless, stroke, spinal cord
ischemia, and other complications that are associated with
open repair can also occur with TEVAR.
Although there is no device currently commercially
available with an on-label indication for repair of traumatic thoracic aortic transections, these are increasingly
being treated off-label using endovascular devices. At the
time of this manuscript, there were at least two ongoing
investigator device exemption (IDE) pivotal clinical trials in187

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2011

188 Lee et al

Table I. GRADE (Grading of Recommendations
Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) system
Strength of recommendation
Grade 1 (strong)
Grade 2 (weak)
Quality of evidence
Level A (high quality)
Level B (moderate quality)
Level C (low or very low
quality)

Terminology
“We recommend . . .”
“We suggest . . .”
Source of evidence
Well conducted randomized trials.
Less rigorous or inconsistent
randomized trials.
Observational studies, case series,
and unsystematic observations
or expert opinion.

vestigating the safety and efficacy of endovascular repair of
traumatic thoracic aortic injuries. Despite the focal nature of
these aortic injuries, which may appear to favor endograft
repair, there remains a number of unresolved issues: (1)
poor conformation to the arch, (2) frequent need to cover
the left subclavian artery (LSA), (3) uncertain natural history of the repair given the younger age of trauma victims
and the morphologic changes of the aorta that come with
age, (4) optimal follow-up strategy that may span several
decades and the risks of cumulative radiation exposure, (5)
timing of repair, and (6) the need for intraoperative anticoagulation in the setting of polytrauma.
The Society for Vascular Surgery® (SVS) identified several
key issues that require the development of clinical practice
guidelines to aid surgeons, referring physicians, and patients in
the process of decision making. Endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injuries was one of these areas. In developing these guidelines, the Society utilized similar processes
and formats to their recently published guidelines.8 First, the
Society selected a committee of experts in the field who
possess knowledge of the clinical aspects as well as patients’
values and preferences in this regard. Second, they commissioned the Knowledge and Encounter Research Unit, Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, a third party with expertise in evidencebased medicine, knowledge synthesis, and guideline development to conduct a comprehensive systematic review of
the literature and identify the best available evidence. The
Society acknowledged the value of systematic reviews and
meta-analyses since, compared with individual studies, they
provide evidence that is more robust and more likely to be
applicable to a wider range of patients. Third, the Society
utilized the Grading of Recommendations Assessment,
Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methods to develop and present their recommendations. The GRADE
method provides superior clarity and separates the quality
of evidence from the strength of recommendations. It also
allows for the inclusion of patients’ values and preferences
in recommendations8 (Table I).
In this article, the committee presents the following
recommendation with the aim of clarifying the role of
TEVAR in the treatment of traumatic blunt aortic injuries.
While there was diversity of individual opinions, the article

reflects the consensus of the committee. The recommendation is followed by the supporting evidence, a values statement, and relevant technical remarks. Detailed description
of the data analysis is in the accompanying article.9
RECOMMENDATION BASED ON THE
META-ANALYSIS
Prospective randomized trials directly comparing open
vs endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injury are
unavailable. Despite probable clinical equipoise, such a
clinical trial will unlikely be conducted in a timely and
successful manner. Therefore, based on the systematic review of the available literature presented in an article by
Murad et al,9 the committee suggests that endovascular
repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injuries be performed
preferentially over open surgical repair or nonoperative
management. This recommendation is based on very low
quality evidence (Grade 2, Level C).
EVIDENCE
The systematic review commissioned by the Society
included 7768 patients (77% males). The mean ages of
patients treated nonoperatively and with endovascular or
open repair were 39, 39, and 36 years, respectively. The
mortality rate was significantly lower in patients who underwent endovascular repair, followed by open repair and
nonoperative management (9%, 19%, and 46%, respectively, P ⬍ .01). The ISS correlated with mortality after
open (P ⫽ .01) but not endovascular repair (P ⫽.68). No
significant difference in event rate across the three groups
was noted for any stroke. The risk of spinal cord ischemia
(SCI) and end stage renal disease (ESRD) was higher in
open repair compared with endovascular repair and nonoperative management (SCI: 9% open vs 3% endovascular and
3% nonoperative, P ⫽ .01; ESRD: 8% open vs 5% endovascular and 3% nonoperative, P ⫽ .01). Compared with
endovascular repair, open repair was associated with increased risk of graft infection and systemic infections, most
commonly pneumonia. With a median follow-up of 2 years,
there was a trend toward increased risk of a secondary
procedure in endovascular compared with open repair (P ⫽
.07).
VALUES
In developing the recommendation that endovascular
repair should be performed preferentially over open surgical repair or nonoperative management, the committee
placed a significantly higher value on preventing catastrophic complications of thoracic aortic repair (death,
stroke, and spinal cord ischemia) and a lower value on
potential adverse events such as endoleak, need for reintervention, and device failures. The committee also placed less
value on possible late-term outcomes that remain unknown
at this time. Furthermore, the committee acknowledges the
off-label use of a medical device in the context of endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injury, although
there are ongoing studies investigating the safety and efficacy in this application; however, as we believe that pre-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 53, Number 1

Lee et al 189

Table II. Summary of guidelines for thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) in traumatic thoracic aortic injuries

Guideline
Choice of treatment
Timing of repair
Management of minimal
aortic injury
Type of repair in the
young patient
Management of left
subclavian artery
Systemic heparinization
Spinal drainage
Choice of anesthesia
Femoral access technique

Consensus
We suggest that endovascular repair be performed preferentially
over open surgical repair or nonoperative management.
We suggest urgent (⬍24 hours) repair, and at the latest prior to
hospital discharge.
We suggest expectant management with serial imaging for type
I injuries.
We suggest endovascular repair regardless of age if anatomically
suitable.
We suggest selective revascularization of the left subclavian
artery.
We suggest routine heparinization but at a lower dose than in
elective TEVAR.
We do not suggest routine spinal drainage.
We suggest general anesthesia.
We suggest open femoral exposure.

venting death is paramount in this setting, the committee
recommends endovascular repair.
CONSENSUS OF OPINION ON SELECT ISSUES
Endovascular repair of traumatic thoracic aortic injuries
poses several unresolved or controversial issues whose supporting evidence lacks sufficient clarity in the literature due
to cohort heterogeneity, size, and length of follow-up.
Nevertheless, the committee sought to arrive at some consensus on a select number of these issues to offer guidance
in actual clinical practice. To this end, a series of questions
were used to survey the opinions of each committee member. Published evidence is provided in support of the majority and minority opinions when available. Using the
GRADE system, all of the following opinions should be
regarded as Grade 2, Level C statements (Table II).
Issue 1: Timing of TEVAR in a stable patient. The
committee suggests urgent (⬍24 hours) repair barring
other serious concomitant nonaortic injuries, or repair immediately after other injuries have been treated, but at the
latest prior to hospital discharge.10,11 This is consistent
with the available evidence in which mortality was 46% in
those managed nonoperatively.9 While most did not favor
discharge without repair, depending on the severity of the
injury (see below), minority opinion was expressed that
expectant management was appropriate with follow-up imaging.
Issue 2: Management of “minimal aortic injury”
(periadventitial defect or hematoma). Intimal or periadventitial defects or hematomas are not infrequently seen on
computed tomography (CT) scan. A classification scheme
for grading the severity of aortic injury has been proposed:
type I (intimal tear), type II (intramural hematoma), type
III (pseudoaneurysm), and type IV (rupture)12 (Fig). The
committee suggests expectant management with serial imaging for type I injuries, while types II to IV should be
repaired. This is based on early evidence that most type I

Grade of
recommendation
1—strong
2—weak

Quality of evidence
A— high
B—moderate
C—low or very low

2

C

2

C

2

C

2

C

2

C

2

C

2
2
2

C
C
C

injuries heal spontaneously.12 Decision to intervene and its
timing should be guided by progression of the initial radiographic abnormality and/or symptoms.
Issue 3: Choice of repair in the young—TEVAR vs
open. There was near unanimity of opinion that anatomic
suitability is important for TEVAR but age should not be a
factor in deciding the type of repair. The risks of death and
spinal cord ischemia are significantly lower in all age groups
after endovascular repair compared with open surgery,13-15
and these early benefits outweigh the concerns of potential
late complications. However, in surgically fit patients with
poor anatomy for endovascular repair, conventional open
repair should be considered.
Issue 4: Suitability and the unmet needs of current
FDA-approved thoracic endografts. With the availability of three commercially available devices, there was considerable divergence of opinion about the “best” device for
use in traumatic thoracic aortic injury. There was a consensus, however, that arch conformation represented the single greatest unmet need given the curvature of the thoracic
aorta at the location of the injury. Inability to conform to
this curvature can result in malapposition of the endograft,
which can lead to endoleak and endograft collapse.16 The
aortic diameters are relatively smaller in the younger subset
of trauma patients. Currently, available thoracic endograft
sizes mostly reflect the larger aortic diameters that would be
typically encountered in an older cohort with degenerative
aneurysms. Excessive oversizing may result in attachment
site endoleak, device infolding, endograft collapse, and
even death from acute aortic occlusion.16 Endograft collapse represents a failure of the therapy and a marker of
unsuitable anatomy, and open surgical conversion should
be considered. No consensus could be reached regarding
optimal oversizing for these cases, and opinions were
equally divided among minimal to no oversizing, 5% to 10%
oversizing, and standard oversizing per manufacturer’s recommendations. Historically, abdominal endograft compo-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2011

190 Lee et al

Fig. Classifications of traumatic aortic injury.12

nents such as proximal extension cuffs have been used when
thoracic devices were either unavailable or anatomically
unsuitable.17,18 Due to the shorter delivery systems, often
these devices could not reach the site of injury from the
femoral approach, which necessitated either use of a longer
makeshift delivery system or access through a more proximal site. The lengths of extension cuffs are typically short,
and this required multiple overlapping pieces. Such an
intercalating construction allowed slightly improved conformation to the arch but at the same time introduced
multiple junctions, which were potential sources of type III
endoleaks.
A number of next generation devices are presently
undergoing clinical trials that may address some of the
unmet needs of this therapy. Cook (Bloomington, Ind) has
recently introduced the Pro-Form delivery system that is
intended to improve arch conformability, and in the near
future the TX2 LP (low-profile), which will decrease the
profile of the delivery catheter and broaden the range of
available diameters. Medtronic (Santa Rosa, Calif) will
introduce the Valiant thoracic endograft with the Captivia delivery system, which should enhance the stability
and reliability of the deployment mechanism. W. L. Gore
(Flagstaff, Ariz) is currently conducting clinical trials of
their c (conformable)-TAG device, with which preliminary experience outside the United States appears to
show improved arch conformability and greater tolerance to device oversizing.
Issue 5: LSA management during zone 2 coverage.
There was near unanimity of opinion for selective revascu-

larization (either before or after TEVAR) depending on the
status of the vertebral anatomy, with a minority opinion
favoring routine revascularization.19 In the current metaanalysis,9 the LSA was covered in 30% of cases. Preservation
of antegrade perfusion on the side of the dominant vertebral artery can specifically decrease the risk of posterior
circulation strokes.20 However, the urgency of the repair
and the condition of the victim may preclude preoperative
assessment. If the LSA is covered, intraoperative angiography of the right vertebral artery would allow the most
expeditious assessment of the adequacy of the posterior
circulation. If the right vertebral artery is atretic or hypoplastic with or without an intact Circle of Willis, the decision to revascularize the left subclavian artery must be
individualized taking into account the availability of surgical expertise, condition of the patient, and other injuries.19
Issue 6: Systemic heparinization. The safety of systemic heparinization during endovascular repair in a multiply injured patient with a closed head injury or abdominal
solid organ injury is a controversial issue. The majority of
committee members indicated that they routinely use systemic heparin but at a lower dose than in elective TEVAR.
A minority opinion was expressed that heparin may not be
necessary as most of these cases can be performed relatively
rapidly, and the risk of a thrombotic event is likely small.21
In the final analysis, the decision must be individualized
based on the balance of the perceived risks of bleeding in a
particular organ system vs the thromboembolic complications.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 53, Number 1

Issue 7: Spinal drainage. Spinal drainage has been
the mainstay of management for spinal cord ischemia during TEVAR. The issue of prophylactic spinal drainage is
controversial even for treatment of degenerative thoracic
aneurysms and, to be sure, no data exist for traumatic
injuries. SCI is a low-incidence event (3%) after TEVAR for
traumatic injuries.9 Based on this and the proximal location
of the injury, limited coverage of the thoracic aorta and the
risk of epidural hematoma in a coagulopathic patient, there
was unanimity of opinion that spinal drainage is not routinely indicated, and it should only be placed for symptoms
of spinal cord ischemia.
Issue 8: Choice of anesthesia— general vs regional
vs local. There was a strong consensus favoring general
anesthesia. While it is possible to perform TEVAR under
local anesthesia (minority opinion), unreliable cooperation
of an agitated trauma patient and presence of concomitant
injuries that may require additional surgery make this option less favorable.
Issue 9: Femoral access technique— open vs percutaneous. Nearly all of the committee members favored
open femoral exposure in these cases to minimize potentially avoidable complications related to percutaneous closure of large bore access sites. On the other hand, “percutaneous TEVAR” using suture-mediated closure devices
can be performed safely with low rates of early and late limb
or life threatening events22 and there was a minority opinion, which favored this approach. In the emergent setting,
percutaneous access can also refer to the actual insertion of
the endovascular device without initial surgical exposure of
the femoral artery. The artery is repaired after the endograft
is deployed by surgical exposure, and removal of the delivery system under direct vision. This technique may allow a
more rapid endograft delivery and repair in a hemodynamically unstable patient.
Issue 10: Optimal follow-up strategy. Given the
concerns of cumulative radiation, iodinated contrast exposure, and late endograft collapse, the optimal strategy for
long-term follow-up of these patients post-TEVAR remains in evolution. Opinions varied widely within the
committee as to the frequency and types of imaging that
should be utilized. In the absence of any abnormalities on
imaging (ie, stable endograft position, no endoleak) in the
first 12 to 36 months, some have suggested decreasing the
frequency to 2 to 5 years, while others have expressed that,
lacking any evidence to the contrary, follow-up for traumatic thoracic aortic injuries should be no different than
those treated with TEVAR for other pathologies. There
was, however, some consensus suggesting that a combination of a multi-view chest x-ray and a magnetic resonance
angiography (MRA) may be preferable over conventional
contrast computed tomographic angiography (CTA) for
long-term imaging, with due consideration of the metallic
composition of the endograft.
CONCLUSION
Although the quality of evidence is very low, TEVAR
for traumatic thoracic aortic injury is associated with im-

Lee et al 191

proved outcomes compared with open repair, especially
about its lower mortality and incidence of spinal cord
ischemia. However, this finding should be tempered by the
current lack of suitable devices that can accommodate the
unique anatomy of these patients, which has occasionally
resulted in severe procedure-related complications, and the
unknown natural history of the endovascular repair and the
optimal follow-up strategy.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: WL
Analysis and interpretation: WL, JM, SM, MF, RG, AA,
MM, RF
Data collection: WL, MM
Writing the article: WL
Critical revision of the article: WL
Final approval of the article: WL, JM, SM, MF, RG, AA,
MM, RF
Statistical analysis: MM
Obtained funding: Not applicable
Overall responsibility: WL
REFERENCES
1. Clancy TV, Gary Maxwell J, Covington DL, Brinker CC, Blackman D.
A statewide analysis of level I and II trauma centers for patients with
major injuries. J Trauma 2001;51:346-51.
2. Richens D, Field M, Neale M, Oakley C. The mechanism of injury in
blunt traumatic rupture of the aorta. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2002;21:
288-93.
3. Fabian TC, Richardson JD, Croce MA, Smith JS Jr, Rodman G Jr,
Kearney PA, et al. Prospective study of blunt aortic injury: multicenter
trial of the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma. J Trauma
1997;42:374-80.
4. Jamieson WR, Janusz MT, Gudas VM, Burr LH, Fradet GJ, Henderson
C. Traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta: third decade of experience.
Am J Surg 2002;183:571-5.
5. Cowley RA, Turney SZ, Hankins JR, Rodriguez A, Attar S, Shankar BS.
Rupture of thoracic aorta caused by blunt trauma. A 15-year experience.
J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1990;100:652-60.
6. Ott MC, Stewart TC, Lawlor DK, Gray DK, Forbes TL. Management
of blunt thoracic aortic injuries: endovascular stents versus open repair.
J Trauma 2004;56:565-70.
7. Tehrani HY, Peterson BG, Katariya K, Morasch MD, Stevens R,
DiLuozzo G, et al. Endovascular repair of thoracic aortic tears. Ann
Thorac Surg 2006;82:873-7.
8. Murad MH, Swiglo BA, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Montori VM. Methodology for clinical practice guidelines for the management of arteriovenous access. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:26S-30S.
9. Murad MH, Rizvi AZ, Malgor R, Carey J, Alkatib AA, Erwin PJ, et al.
Comparative effectiveness of the treatments for aortic transaction: a
systematic review and meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg
10. Demetriades D, Velmahos GC, Scalea TM, Jurkovich GJ, Karmy-Jones
R, Teixeira PG, et al. Blunt traumatic thoracic aortic injuries: early or
delayed repair–results of an American Association for the Surgery of
Trauma prospective study. J Trauma 2009;66:967-73.
11. Pate JW, Gavant ML, Weiman DS, Fabian TC. Traumatic rupture of the
aortic isthmus: program of selective management. World J Surg 1999;
23:59-63.
12. Azizzadeh A, Keyhani K, Miller CC III, Coogan SM, Safi HJ, Estrera
AL. Blunt traumatic aortic injury: initial experience with endovascular
repair. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:1403-8.
13. Xenos ES, Abedi NN, Davenport DL, Minion DJ, Hamdallah O, Sorial
EE, et al. Meta-analysis of endovascular vs open repair for traumatic
descending thoracic aortic rupture. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:1343-51.

192 Lee et al

14. Tang GL, Tehrani HY, Usman A, Katariya K, Otero C, Perez E, et al.
Reduced mortality, paraplegia, and stroke with stent graft repair of
blunt aortic transections: a modern meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg 2008;
47:671-5.
15. Neschis DG, Scalea TM, Flinn WR, Griffith BP. Blunt aortic injury.
N Engl J Med 2008;359:1708-16.
16. Raupach J, Ferko A, Lojik M, Krajina A, Harrer J, Dominik J. Endovascular treatment of acute and chronic thoracic aortic injury. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2007;30:1117-23.
17. Wellons ED, Milner R, Solis M, Levitt A, Rosenthal D. Stent-graft repair of
traumatic thoracic aortic disruptions. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:1095-100.
18. McPhee JT, Asham EH, Rohrer MJ, Singh MJ, Wong G, Vorhies RW,
et al. The midterm results of stent graft treatment of thoracic aortic
injuries. J Surg Res 2007;138:181-8.
19. Matsumura JS, Lee WA, Mitchell RS, Farber MA, Murad MH,
Lumsden AB, et al; Society for Vascular Surgery. The Society for

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
January 2011

Vascular Surgery Practice Guidelines: management of the left
subclavian artery with thoracic endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc
Surg 2009;50:1155-8.
20. Feezor RJ, Martin TD, Hess PJ, Klodell CT, Beaver TM, Huber TS, et
al. Risk factors for perioperative stroke during thoracic endovascular
aortic repairs (TEVAR). J Endovasc Ther 2007;14:568-73.
21. Peterson BG, Matsumura JS, Morasch MD, West MA, Eskandari MK.
Percutaneous endovascular repair of blunt thoracic aortic transection.
J Trauma 2005;59:1062-5.
22. Lee WA, Brown MP, Nelson PR, Huber TS, Seeger JM. Midterm
outcomes of femoral arteries after percutaneous endovascular aortic
repair using the Preclose technique. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:919-23.

Submitted Aug 2, 2010; accepted Aug 10, 2010.

