i An update to this article is included at the end

Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines
for management of extracranial carotid disease
John J. Ricotta, MD,a Ali AbuRahma, MD, FACS,b Enrico Ascher, MD,c Mark Eskandari, MD,d
Peter Faries, MD,e and Brajesh K. Lal MD,f Washington, DC; Charleston, WV; Brooklyn, NY; Chicago, Ill;
New York, NY; and Baltimore, Md
Management of carotid bifurcation stenosis is a cornerstone of stroke prevention and has been the subject of extensive
clinical investigation, including multiple controlled randomized trials. The appropriate treatment of patients with carotid
bifurcation disease is of major interest to the community of vascular surgeons. In 2008, the Society for Vascular Surgery
published guidelines for treatment of carotid artery disease. At the time, only one randomized trial, comparing carotid
endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid stenting (CAS), had been published. Since that publication, four major randomized
trials comparing CEA and CAS have been published, and the role of medical management has been re-emphasized. The
current publication updates and expands the 2008 guidelines with specific emphasis on six areas: imaging in identification
and characterization of carotid stenosis, medical therapy (as stand-alone management and also in conjunction with
intervention in patients with carotid bifurcation stenosis), risk stratification to select patients for appropriate interventional management (CEA or CAS), technical standards for performing CEA and CAS, the relative roles of CEA and CAS,
and management of unusual conditions associated with extracranial carotid pathology. Recommendations are made using
the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system, as has been done with other
Society for Vascular Surgery guideline documents. The committee recommends CEA as the first-line treatment for most
symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic patients with stenosis of 60% to 99%. The
perioperative risk of stroke and death in asymptomatic patients must be <3% to ensure benefit for the patient. CAS should
be reserved for symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% at high risk for CEA for anatomic or medical reasons.
CAS is not recommended for asymptomatic patients at this time. Asymptomatic patients at high risk for intervention or
with <3 years life expectancy should be considered for medical management as the first-line therapy. ( J Vasc Surg 2011;
54:e1-e31.)

TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Indications for carotid bifurcation imaging
A. Indications for imaging the neurologically symptomatic patient
B. Indications for imaging the neurologically asymptomatic patient
1. Screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis
a. Screening patients with asymptomatic bruit
b. Potential “high-risk groups” who might
benefit from screening for asymptomatic
stenosis
● Recommendations for the use of carotid bifurcation imaging
II. Selecting imaging modalities for carotid evaluation
From the Washington Hospital Center, Georgetown University School of
Medicine, Washington, DCa; University of West Virginia, Charlestonb;
Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklync; Northwestern University, Chicagod; Mount Sinai University School of Medicine, New Yorke; and
University Maryland, Baltimore.f
Competition of interest: none.
Reprint requests: John J. Ricotta, MD, Chairman Department of Surgery,
Washington Hospital Center, 110 Irving St NW, Ste G253, Washington,
DC 20010 (e-mail: john.j.ricotta@medstar.net).
The editors and reviewers of this article have no relevant financial relationships
to disclose per the JVS policy that requires reviewers to decline review of any
manuscript for which they may have a competition of interest.
0741-5214/$36.00
Copyright © 2011 by the Society for Vascular Surgery.
doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2011.07.031

A. Carotid duplex ultrasound imaging
B. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography
C. Computed tomography angiography
D. Catheter-based digital subtraction arteriography
E. Comparison of CDUS, MRA, CTA, and DSA
● Recommendations for selection of carotid imaging modalities
III. Medical management of patients with carotid stenosis
A. Treatment of hypertension
B. Treatment of diabetes mellitus
C. Treatment of lipid abnormalities
D. Smoking cessation
E. Antithrombotic treatment
F. Anticoagulant therapy
G. Medical management for the perioperative period
of CEA
H. Medical management for the perioperative period
of CAS
● Recommendations for medical management of
patients with carotid atherosclerosis
IV. Technical recommendations for carotid interventions
A. Carotid endarterectomy
B. Carotid artery stenting
● Recommendations regarding CEA and CAS technique
V. Selecting the appropriate therapy: medical management, CAS, or CEA
e1

e2 Ricotta et al

A. Assessing the risk associated with intervention
1. Anatomic and lesion characteristics
a. Lesion location
b. Lesion characteristics
c. Other anatomic considerations
2. Patient characteristics
B. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with ⱖ60%
carotid artery stenosis
1. CEA for asymptomatic lesions
2. CAS in asymptomatic lesions
3. Medical management of asymptomatic carotid
stenosis
C. Neurologically symptomatic patients with ⱖ50%
carotid artery disease
1. CEA in symptomatic stenosis
2. CAS in symptomatic stenosis
D. Meta-analysis: CEA vs CAS
● Recommendations for selecting therapy
VI. Unusual conditions associated with carotid stenosis
A. Acute neurologic syndromes
1. Management of acute stroke
a. Presentation within 0-6 hours
b. Presentation later than 6 hours
2. Stroke in evolution (fluctuating neurologic
deficits)
3. Crescendo TIA
4. Acute postintervention stroke/occlusion
● Recommendations for management of acute neurologic syndromes
B. ICA occlusion with persistent symptoms/external
carotid stenosis
● Recommendations for management of symptomatic ICA occlusion
C. Carotid dissection
● Recommendations for management of carotid dissection
D. Combined carotid and coronary disease
● Recommendations for management of combined
carotid and coronary disease
Management of extracranial carotid disease has been
the focus of intense investigation and debate by multiple
medical specialists since the introduction of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) as a therapeutic option for the treatment
and prevention of stroke more than half a century ago.
Initial hopes that CEA could reverse the clinical course of
stroke were proven false, and the role of surgical management of extracranial carotid and vertebral obstructions was
defined by one of the earliest efforts at a multicentered
randomized clinical trial, The Joint Study on The Extracranial Circulation.1 The results of this decade-long study,
involving 5000 patients, established the role of CEA in the
treatment of minor stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA),
and amaurosis fugax, confirmed that surgery had a limited

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

role in the treatment of established stroke, and established
the limited role of vertebral reconstruction in the treatment
of cerebral insufficiency. Over the ensuing decades, surgical
results of CEA improved, asymptomatic carotid stenosis
was increasingly identified by noninvasive studies, and CEA
assumed a primarily prophylactic role as prevention of
major stroke in asymptomatic patients or those with evidence of transient cerebral or ocular ischemia. Large randomized trials2-6 have established the role and efficacy of
carotid endarterectomy (CEA) in stroke prevention.
In the last decade, carotid artery stenting (CAS) has
emerged as a catheter-based alternative to CEA, and medical therapy for stroke treatment and prevention has
evolved. Currently, approximately 135,000 interventions
on lesions in the carotid bifurcation are being performed
annually in the United States, by a variety of specialists,
including vascular surgeons, general surgeons, thoracic surgeons, neurosurgeons, cardiologists, interventional radiologists, and interventional neurologists.7,8 Approximately
11% of these interventions are catheter-based, and 90% of
interventions are in patients without neurologic symptoms.7
As in any situation where there are multiple options for
the treatment of a single condition, defining optimal treatment can be difficult. This is further compounded when
multiple specialists, often with nonoverlapping expertise,
are involved in the treatment of the patient. As a result, a
voluminous and often conflicting literature has developed
around the current standards of diagnosis and management
of extracranial carotid stenosis. Recently two large, prospective, randomized trials have been published comparing
the efficacy of CEA and CAS in the management of extracranial carotid stenosis.9,10 A meta-analysis comparing
CAS and CEA, including these trials has recently been
published in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.11
In 2008, the Society for Vascular Surgery published
clinical practice guidelines for the management of extracranial carotid artery disease in the Journal of Vascular Surgery.12 More recently, a multispecialty document has been
published on the “Management of Patients with Extracranial Carotid and Vertebral Artery Disease.”13 This extensive document represents an effort to evaluate the existing
literature on extracranial carotid and vertebral disease and is
an important reference.
The data contained in the recently published randomized trials has prompted the Society for Vascular Surgery to
publish an update of its 2008 guidelines, confined to management of extracranial carotid artery disease. This is particularly appropriate because vascular surgeons play a major
if not predominant role in the management of patients with
carotid bifurcation disease.
In developing these recommendations, the committee
placed more weight on the reduction of stroke and death
and less on the importance of nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI). Because the latter end point often represents the
main benefit of CAS, the recommendations in this document are more circumspect with regard to the role of CAS
and more supportive of the role of CEA than the recom-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

mendations of the American Heart Association (AHA)
guidelines committee. This document is divided into six
major sections:
I. Indications for imaging of the extracranial circulation
II. Selection of imaging modality
III. The importance of medical therapy in the overall
management of patients with carotid stenosis, including medical management in the peri-intervention period.
IV. Technical considerations for performing CEA and
CAS
V. The relative roles of medical management, CEA and
CAS for stroke risk reduction in patients with carotid
stenosis based on review of the literature, with particular reference to risk factor stratification and the most
recent completed trials
VI. The management of unusual conditions associated
with extracranial carotid pathology, including acute
neurologic conditions, symptomatic carotid occlusion, carotid dissection, and patients with carotid stenosis in need of coronary artery revascularization
The committee reviewed the literature pertinent to
each of the six areas and provided recommendations for
treatment using the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation
Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system.14 This
system, adopted by more than 40 other organizations,
incorporates an evaluation of the strength of the evidence
and the risks/benefits of implementing the recommendation. For the purposes of this review, we placed the highest
priorities on reducing overall stroke risk, periprocedural
stroke risk, and periprocedural mortality. Lesser importance was given to reducing nonfatal MI, cost, and the
ability to perform a percutaneous procedure. Recommendations are characterized as strong GRADE 1 or weak
GRADE 2, based on the quality of evidence, the balance
between desirable effects and undesirable ones, the values
and preferences, and the resources and costs.
GRADE 1 recommendations are meant to identify
practices where benefit clearly outweighs risk. These recommendations can be made by clinicians and accepted by
patients with a high degree of confidence. GRADE 2
recommendations are made when the benefits and risks are
more closely matched and are more dependent on specific
clinical scenarios. In general, physician and patient preference plays a more important role in the decision-making
process in these circumstances.
In addition to the GRADE of recommendation, the
level of evidence to support the recommendation is noted.
Evidence is divided into 3 categories: A (high quality), B
(moderate quality), and C (low quality). Conclusions based
on high-quality evidence are unlikely to change with further study, those based on moderate-quality evidence are
more likely to be affected by further investigation, and
those based on low-quality evidence are the least supported
by current data and the most likely to be subject to change
in the future.

Ricotta et al e3

It is important to note that a GRADE 1 recommendation can be made based on low-quality (C) evidence by the
effect on patient outcome. For example, although there are
little data on the efficacy of CEA in asymptomatic patients
with ⬍60% stenosis, one can recommend with confidence
that CEA not be performed in these patients. A full explanation of the GRADE system is presented in the recent
article by Murad et al14 referenced earlier. It is important to
note that this grading system differs somewhat from the
one used in the recent American College of Cardiology
(ACC)/AHA Task force report.13
Each member of the committee was assigned responsibility for compiling information pertinent to a specific area
of the document. These data were distributed to all members for review, and each area was subsequently discussed in
conference calls. A consensus of the recommendation and
level of evidence to support it was reached. Each recommendation in this document represents the unanimous
opinion of the task force. Although some recommendations are GRADE 2 with Level 3 data, the task force felt it
appropriate to present these as the unanimous opinion of its
members regarding optimal current management. This was
done with the recognition that such recommendations
could change in the future but that it was unlikely that new
data would emerge soon. These guidelines are likely to be a
“living document” that will change as techniques are further refined, technology develops, medical therapy improves, and new data emerge.
I. INDICATIONS FOR CAROTID
BIFURCATION IMAGING
Stroke is the third leading cause of death, behind
coronary artery disease (CAD) and cancer, and is the leading cause of disability in the United States and Western Europe. Approximately 80% of strokes are ischemic
and 20% are hemorrhagic.15 Significant carotid stenosis
(⬎50%) is seen in 12% to 20% of all anterior circulation
ischemic strokes, which is two to three times higher than
the risk for less severe asymptomatic stenosis.16,17 Unfortunately, only 15% of stroke victims have a warning TIA
before stroke, and waiting until symptoms occur is not
ideal.18 The purpose of carotid bifurcation imaging is to
detect “stroke-prone” carotid bifurcation plaque and identify a high-risk patient likely to benefit from therapy designed to reduce stroke risk.
Stroke risk is dependent on many factors, but for patients with carotid bifurcation disease, the most important
are a history of neurologic symptoms, the degree of stenosis
of the carotid bifurcation plaque, and to a lesser extent,
plaque characteristics such as ulcerations, intraplaque hemorrhage, and lipid content.
The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) and European Carotid Surgery
Trial (ECST) clearly demonstrated the efficacy of CEA in
reducing stroke in patients with symptoms of carotid territory cerebral ischemia and carotid bifurcation stenosis that
reduced luminal diameter by ⬎50%.2-4 In these studies, the
risk of stroke was higher in patients with a clear history of

e4 Ricotta et al

carotid territory ischemic events (as opposed to amaurosis
fugax), and stroke risk increased with the severity of stenosis. Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS)
and Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery Trial (ACST)5,6 found
that CEA was also effective in reducing stroke risk in
patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis ⬎60%, although the stroke risk inherent in an asymptomatic stenosis
was much less than that in a symptomatic lesion. It follows
then that neurologically symptomatic patients and neurologically asymptomatic patients at high risk for harboring a
carotid stenosis of ⱖ60% would be candidates for carotid
bifurcation imaging.
A. Indications for imaging the neurologically
symptomatic patient
Typical carotid territory ischemic symptoms include
contralateral weakness of the face, arm, or leg, or both;
contralateral sensory deficit or paresthesia of the face, arm,
or leg, or both; or transient ipsilateral blindness (amaurosis
fugax). If the right cerebral hemisphere is involved, other
manifestations may be noted, including anosognosia, asomatognosia, neglect, visual, or sensory extinction. If the left
hemisphere is involved, patients may show manifestation of
aphasia, alexia, anomia, and agraphesthesia. Symptoms not
typically associated with carotid territory events include
vertigo, ataxia, diplopia, visual disturbances, dysarthria,
nausea, vomiting, decreased consciousness, and weakness,
which may include quadriparesis.
The physical examination may show signs of stroke:
facial/eyelid drooping, motor or sensory deficits, and
speech disturbances. Ocular examinations can occasionally
identify Hollenhorst plaques. Neck auscultation may elicit
carotid bruit; however, the absence of a neck bruit does not
exclude the possibility of a significant carotid bifurcation
lesion. Given the incidence of significant carotid stenosis in
patients who present with stroke15,19 and the effectiveness
of CEA in reducing stroke in symptomatic patients with
⬎50% carotid stenosis,2-4 it is important to evaluate the
carotid bifurcation in every patient with symptoms of carotid territory ischemia.
Amaurosis fugax or the finding of a Hollenhorst plaque
on funduscopic examination, or both, is also correlated
with the presence of significant carotid bifurcation stenosis.
However, neither amaurosis fugax nor identification of a
Hollenhorst plaque are associated with the same stroke risk
as transient cerebral ischemia.20 Identification of carotid
stenosis in that clinical scenario implies a stroke risk somewhere between a neurologically symptomatic patient and
one who is asymptomatic.
B. Indications for imaging the neurologically
asymptomatic patient
Evaluation and treatment of patients who are neurologically asymptomatic is much more controversial. The
benefit of carotid endarterectomy for stenosis ⬎60%, although statistically significant in large trials, is much less
than for neurologically symptomatic individuals and rests
on the premise that intervention can be performed with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

minimal morbidity.5,6 Identification of these asymptomatic
patients may occur by routine screening using duplex ultrasound (DUS) imaging or selective application of DUS
imaging to high-risk individuals.
1. Screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis. To
date, there is no consensus on which patients should undergo carotid screening for the detection of carotid stenosis. The American Society of Neuroimaging21 concluded
that the efficacy of screening would be related to the
prevalence of the disease in the screened populations. When
the prevalence of stenosis is ⱖ20%, screening reduced risk
of stroke in a cost-effective manner, with intermediate
prevalence of between 5% and 20%: screening reduced the
risk of stroke in a cost-effective manner in some studies;
however, the benefit was usually marginal and was lost if
complications of the intervention ⬎5%. With a prevalence
of ⬍5%, screening has not been shown to reduce the risk of
stroke in a cost-effective manner and may be harmful.
Given these assumptions, screening of the general population is not indicated. This position is supported by
multiple professional organizations, including the National
Stroke Association,22 the Canadian Stroke Consortium23
and the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.24 The American Stroke Association/AHA Stroke Council25 concluded
that highly selected patient populations may benefit, but
screening of the general population for asymptomatic carotid stenosis was unlikely to be cost-effective and might
have the potential adverse effect of false-negative or falsepositive results. Finally, the American College of Cardiology Foundation, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography
and Interventions, Society for Vascular Medicine and Biology, Society of Interventional Radiology, and American
Society of Interventional & Therapeutic Neuroradiology
Clinical Expert Consensus Panel on Carotid Stenting recommended screening for asymptomatic patients with carotid bruit who are potential candidates for carotid intervention and for those in whom coronary artery bypass
grafting (CABG) is planned.26
a. Screening patients with asymptomatic bruit. Zhu
and Norris,27 in the largest reported study of carotid
screening in asymptomatic patients, reported the prevalence of carotid stenosis ⬎75% for those with a carotid bruit
was 1.2%. Although the presence of a neck bruit has not
been found to predict carotid stenosis ⬎60% in a neurologically asymptomatic population,27 focal ipsilateral carotid
bruits in neurologically symptomatic patients had a sensitivity of 63% and a specificity of 61% for high-grade carotid
stenosis (range, 70%-99%).28 The absence of a bruit did not
significantly change the probability of significant stenosis in
this group of patients (pretest, 52%; post-test, 40%). Ratchford et al29 found in a selected high-risk subgroup of
asymptomatic patients that if a bruit was heard, 25% had a
⬎60% stenosis. The presence of carotid bruit has been
shown to increase the absolute risk of stroke,30-32 MI, and
death.33 In general population-based studies, the prevalence of severe bifurcation stenosis is not high enough to
make bruit alone an indication for carotid screening. With
these facts in mind, screening should be pursued only if a

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

bruit is associated with other risk factors for stenosis and
stroke in patients who have a low operative risk5,6,12,34 and
are willing to undergo carotid intervention, whether CEA
or CAS.
b. Potential “high-risk groups” who might benefit from
screening for asymptomatic stenosis. Two studies have
identified specific groups among the general population
with a higher prevalence of significant carotid stenosis that
may ⬎30%. Jacobowitz et al35 developed a model identifying patients at high risk for ⬎50% asymptomatic carotid
stenosis. The screened patients were aged ⬎60 years and
had one or more of the following risk factors: history of
hypertension, CAD, current smoking, and a first-degree
family relative with a history of stroke. The prevalence of
carotid artery stenosis was only 2% if no risk factor was
present, 6% with one risk factor, which increased to 14% for
two risk factors, to 16% for three risk factors, and to 67% for
four risk factors.
Qureshi et al36 identified the following variables associated with ⱖ60% asymptomatic carotid stenosis: age ⬎65
years (odds ratio, 4.1), current smoking (odds ratio, 2),
CAD (odds ratio, 2.4), and hypercholesterolemia (odds
ratio, 1.9). Patients undergoing coronary revascularization
are another group with an increased prevalence of carotid
stenosis of 2% to 27%.37,38 Overall, the prevalence of
carotid artery stenosis among patients undergoing CABG is
higher than the general population. In patients with symptomatic CAD and other risk factors, such as age ⬎65 years,
history of stroke or TIA, left main coronary stenosis, diabetes mellitus, carotid bruit, peripheral arterial disease
(PAD), and previous carotid operation, it is feasible that a
subset of patients with a prevalence ⬎20% can be identified
who might benefit from carotid screening.37,39-45 The
ACC/AHA guidelines46 note that carotid screening before
CABG is probably indicated in the following subset of
patients: age ⬎65 years, left main coronary stenosis, history
of smoking, history of TIA/stroke or carotid bruit, and
PAD.
Several studies47-51 have suggested that the prevalence
of ⱖ60% carotid artery stenosis among patients with symptomatic PAD is ⬎20%, regardless of the patient’s age.
However, the prevalence of ⱖ60% carotid artery stenosis
among patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) is
⬍20%.52-54 This suggests that screening patients with AAA
would have only a modest benefit and only if intervention
could be performed with low morbidity and mortality.23
Because there is no evidence that stroke risk after AAA
repair is increased by the presence of carotid stenosis,
routine carotid screening of AAA patients is not indicated.
In patients with prior head and neck radiotherapy, the
prevalence of significant carotid artery stenosis may be high
enough, depending on the time between radiotherapy exposure and screening, to justify routine carotid screening.55-59 The highest incidence is generally observed 15
years after radiotherapy exposure, with 21.3% and 5.3%
rates of ipsilateral and contralateral stenosis, respectively.
The data also suggest that the ipsilateral common carotid
(CCA) and internal carotid arteries (ICA) are both in-

Ricotta et al e5

volved. The rate of contralateral carotid artery stenosis may
also be higher than that observed in the general population.
Unfortunately, limited data are available regarding carotid screening after radiotherapy among patients with
head and neck cancer. However, the distribution of disease
and clinical course in patients after radiation for head and
neck malignancy is different from that of the typical atherosclerotic population. There is a higher incidence of diffuse
disease, often involving the CCA, and many of these patients remain neurologically asymptomatic. Further, CEA
in this group is considered relatively “high risk,” and prior
radiotherapy is a relative indication for CAS rather than
CEA. There are no robust data on the long-term results of
CAS in asymptomatic stenosis associated with prior radiotherapy. Therefore, issues other than the increased prevalence of disease must be considered in formulating recommendations concerning screening in this group of patients.
Brain imaging will occasionally identify patients who
have evidence of focal cerebral infarction despite the absence of any history of neurologic symptoms and a normal
result on the neurologic examination. These infarcts can
vary in size and are often found in the frontal lobes or the
nondominant temporal lobe. They may occur as small
symmetric lacunar infarcts, implying small-vessel disease, or
they may also be asymmetric, which tends to implicate
ipsilateral carotid stenosis. These can be secondary to blood
flow changes distal to carotid occlusion, which may increase
the risk of lacunar infarcts in those with small vessel disease.
However, Kakkos et al60 reported a higher stroke rate of
4.4% vs 1.3% in patients with 60% to 79% clinically asymptomatic stenosis if a silent infarct was present. Carotid
screening is recommended in patients with asymptomatic
infarctions.
● Recommendations for the use of carotid bifurcation imaging
1. Imaging of the cervical carotid artery is recommended
in all patients with symptoms of carotid territory ischemia. This recommendation is based on the significant
incidence of clinically relevant carotid stenosis in this
patient group and the efficacy of CEA for clinically
significant lesions in reducing overall stroke (GRADE 1,
Level of Evidence A).
2. Imaging should be strongly considered for patients who
present with amaurosis fugax, evidence of retinal artery
embolization on funduscopic examination, or asymptomatic cerebral infarction, and are candidates for CEA.
This recommendation is based on the intermediate
stroke risk in this group of patients and the efficacy of
CEA in reducing risk of subsequent stroke (GRADE 1,
Level of Evidence A).
3. Routine screening is not recommended to detect clinically asymptomatic carotid stenosis in the general population. Screening is not recommended for presence of a
neck bruit alone without other risk factors. This recommendation is based on the low prevalence of disease in
the population at large, including those with neck
bruits, as well as the potential harm of indiscriminate

e6 Ricotta et al

application of carotid bifurcation intervention to a large
number of asymptomatic individuals (GRADE 1, Level
of Evidence A).
4. Screening for asymptomatic clinically significant carotid
bifurcation stenosis should be considered in certain
groups of patients with multiple risk factors that increase
the incidence of disease as long as the patients are fit for
and willing to consider carotid intervention if a significant stenosis is discovered. The presence of a carotid
bruit in these patients increases the likelihood of a
significant stenosis (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
Such groups of patients include:
a. Patients with evidence of clinically significant peripheral vascular disease regardless of age.
b. Patients aged ⱖ65 years with a history of one or
more of the following atherosclerotic risk factors:
CAD, smoking, or hypercholesterolemia. In general,
the more risk factors present, the higher the yield of
screening should be expected.
5. Carotid screening may be considered in patients before
CABG. This is most likely to be fruitful if the patients
are aged ⬎65 years and have left main disease or a
history of peripheral vascular disease. The strongest
indication for screening these patients from the data
available is to identify patients at high risk for perioperative stroke (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence B).
6. Carotid screening is not recommended for patients with
AAA who do not fit into one of the above categories
(GRADE 2, Level of Evidence B).
7. Carotid screening is not recommended for asymptomatic patients who have undergone prior head and neck
radiotherapy. Although the incidence of disease is increased in this group of patients, the utility of intervention in the absence of neurologic symptoms has not
been clearly established (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence B).
II. SELECTING IMAGING MODALITIES FOR
CAROTID EVALUATION
The two most important features of carotid bifurcation
atheroma are the degree of diameter stenosis and the character of the bifurcation plaque. In addition to information
about the carotid bifurcation, there are clinical scenarios
where the clinician requires information on the status of the
vessels proximal or distal to the cervical carotid artery.
These factors need to be considered when choosing between imaging studies. It is common—but not universal—
to use multiple modalities when evaluating a patient with
suspected cervical carotid stenosis.
In NASCET2,3 and ECST,4 a higher degree of stenosis
in symptomatic patients was associated with a higher stroke
risk. The ACAS5 found no correlation between the severity
of carotid stenosis and the incidence of stroke; however,
there were too few strokes in this study to permit a subgroup analysis of the effect of degree of stenosis on the
ability to benefit from CEA. Angiographic data from the
ECST study61 on contralateral asymptomatic carotid arteries from 2295 patients demonstrated a ⬍2% annual stroke
risk in patients with ⬍70% neurologically asymptomatic

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

stenosis. Asymptomatic lesions with greater degrees of
stenosis had a greater risk of stroke: 9.8% for patients with
70% to 79% stenosis and 14.4% for those with 80% to 99%
stenosis. These data suggest that the degree of stenosis is a
marker of stroke risk in symptomatic and asymptomatic
lesions. Pathologic studies have demonstrated that more
stenotic carotid plaques are more likely to have ulceration,
intraplaque hemorrhage, and intraluminal thrombus formation, all of which are clearly related to cerebral embolization and stroke.62
Plaque morphology is an important feature in assessing
future risk of neurologic events. Heterogeneous plaques
have been shown to increase the risk of neurologic symptoms (TIA/stroke)63,64 and were also associated with an
incidence of TIA/stroke that was higher than that in homogenous plaques for all grades of stenosis.64 Using DUS
imaging and computerized image analysis65 quantifying
the gray scale median of the plaque, Biasi et al66 demonstrated that gray scale median values of ⱕ25 were associated
with an increased stroke risk of carotid stenting procedures.
Nicolaides et al67 recently concluded that morphologic
assessment of plaque structure may allow the identification
of a subgroup of asymptomatic carotid stenoses with a
4.5-fold increase in the risk of developing ipsilateral neurologic symptoms compared with those with a similar degree
of stenosis, which will reduce the number of patients requiring intervention to prevent one stroke. At present,
however, this type of plaque analysis66,67 is not widely
available and requires further prospective evaluation to
determine its ultimate clinical utility.
The imaging modalities most often used to evaluate
patients for cervical carotid stenosis are carotid DUS
(CDUS), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and angiography (MRA), computed tomography angiography (CTA),
and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Each of these
will be discussed in turn.
A. Carotid duplex ultrasound imaging
DUS imaging provides an accurate and reliable noninvasive tool to determine the degree of cervical carotid
stenosis and plaque morphology in most patients. It is
usually the initial study in patients who present with symptoms or a carotid bruit. Because the study is highly dependent on technique, testing should be done in an accredited
vascular laboratory (eg, Intersocietal Commission for the
Accreditation of Vascular Laboratories), and the images
should be reviewed by physicians experienced in vascular
ultrasound interpretation.
Determining the degree of carotid artery stenosis is
largely based on an analysis of the peak systolic velocity
(PSV) or the end-diastolic velocity (EDV), or both, of the
carotid artery. A panel of experts from several medical
specialties convened in October 2002 in San Francisco,
California, under the auspices of the Society of Radiologists
in Ultrasound, to arrive at a consensus regarding the performance of Doppler US imaging to aid in the diagnosis of
ICA stenosis.68 This panel of experts recommended a cutoff PSV of the ICA of ⱖ125 cm/s for predicting angio-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

graphic ⬎50% stenosis and ⱖ230 cm/s for predicting
⬎70% ICA stenosis. These recommended criteria are based
on an analysis of several published studies and the experience of the panelists rather than values validated against
other imaging modalities.
AbuRahma et al69 recently analyzed the CDUS and
angiography results of 376 carotid arteries in their institution. Using the consensus criteria, they demonstrated a
sensitivity of 93%, specificity of 68%, and overall accuracy of
85% for stenosis between 50% and 69%. A PSV of ⱖ230
cm/s for ⱖ70% stenosis had a sensitivity of 99%, specificity
of 86%, and overall accuracy of 95%. Receiver operator
curves showed that the ICA PSV was significantly better
than EDV or ICA/CCA ratio (P ⫽ .036) in detecting
ⱖ70% stenosis and ⱖ50% stenosis. There was no improvement in accuracy by adding the EDV values or the ratios, or
both, to the PSV values.
Velocity-based estimation of carotid artery stenosis may
need to be adjusted in certain circumstances, for example,
higher velocities in women than in men and higher velocities in the presence of contralateral carotid artery occlusion.70,71 High carotid bifurcation, severe arterial tortuosity, extensive vascular calcification, and obesity may also
reduce the accuracy of DUS imaging. Carotid stents will
decrease compliance of the vessel wall and flow velocity.72
DUS imaging may also fail to differentiate between subtotal and total carotid occlusion. Intravenous administration
of contrast agents may improve diagnostic accuracy,73,74
but the safety of these agents has been questioned.
Power Doppler and contrast DUS imaging can be used
to differentiate between preocclusive stenosis and complete
occlusion.75 Overall, each vascular laboratory should have
in place an internal validation process of their own criteria
for their internal use.
DUS imaging of the carotid artery has two major
limitations: quality dependence on the technician’s examination and limitations of visualization of the proximal
carotid artery and intracranial portions. Although the intracranial cerebral arteries can be assessed with transcranial
Doppler imaging, this technique is not as widely available at
most institutions as other imaging modalities.
In addition to determining percent stenosis, DUS, as
noted above, has been used to determine plaque characteristics (echogenicity) using gray scale median values, which
predict the stroke risk of a particular plaque. Plaque characterization is not routine in every vascular laboratory and
requires specific protocols to assure standardization of results.
B. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography
MRA has the advantage of being noninvasive, does not
require iodinated contrast or ionizing radiation, and provides an unlimited number of projections of the carotid
lumen from a single acquisition. MRA can also assess
intrathoracic and intracranial lesions that are not amenable
to DUS interrogation. MRA does not visualize the surrounding soft tissue structures, unless additional MRI is
performed, and calcium within the plaque is not defined. It

Ricotta et al e7

cannot be used in patients with implanted ferromagnetic
devices, such as implantable defibrillators and pacemakers,
and is of limited use in uncooperative patients and those
with claustrophobia. The gadolinium-based compounds
used as a contrast agent for MRA have been associated with
nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in patients with pre-existing
renal disorders.76
MRA has a tendency to overestimate the degree of
carotid stenosis. The sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing 70% to 99% stenosis with time-of-flight MRA are
identical to DUS imaging (88% and 84%, respectively);
however, MRA has a tendency to “over-read” stenosis,
making it difficult to differentiate more moderate (50% to
69%) from severe stenosis. Similarly, high-grade stenosis
will result in a loss of signal on MRA. This does not
represent a carotid occlusion when the more distal cervical
carotid is visualized. However, when there is no reconstitution of the cervical carotid artery on MRA, the diagnosis
of carotid occlusion can be made with a high degree of
certainty.76,77
MRI can be used to analyze plaque morphology, specifically the structure of the atherosclerotic plaque. It can
identify the lipid-rich necrotic core and the fibrous capsule
with high sensitivity and specificity78 and can distinguish
between an intact thick, thin, or ruptured fibrous cap.79
When dedicated protocols are used, MR also can demonstrate specific plaque components, including calcium, lipid,
fibrocellular element, or thrombus within the plaques.
C. Computed tomography angiography
CTA is less susceptible than MRA to overestimating the
severity of carotid stenosis. The rapid acquisition of spiral
CT images allows excellent timing with contrast administration and provides quality images that can be viewed in
multiple planes. CTA is extremely fast and offers submillimeter spatial resolution (0.3 vs 0.8 mm for contrastenhanced MRA), is less expensive than contrast-enhanced
MRA, provides a faster processing time, and can visualize
soft tissue, bone, and blood vessels at the same time. CTA
can also demonstrate vascular anomalies, has the ability to
quantify the extent of calcification, and can interrogate the
arterial tree from the aortic arch to the circle of Willis.
Stenoses can be measured with electronic microcalipers
based on NASCET or ECST methods.80
A meta-analysis of 28 studies analyzing the diagnostic
accuracy of CTA compared with DSA showed a pooled
sensitivity of 85% and specificity of 93% for CTA in detecting 70% to 99% carotid stenosis and a sensitivity and specificity for occlusions of 97% and 99%.81 CTA was also
highly accurate in identifying calcification but less reliable
in describing carotid plaque morphology, specifically the
lipid component, or ulceration. CTA appears less reliable
than DUS imaging or MRA for assessing plaque morphology.82 Other limitations of this technique include cost
(compared with DUS), contrast exposure, and the added
concern of radiation exposure. In addition, a large calcium
burden can limit the ability to distinguish contrast from
calcium during postprocessing imaging.

e8 Ricotta et al

D. Catheter-based DSA
Many authorities still consider carotid conventional
digital angiography to be the gold standard against all other
imaging modalities in patients with extracranial cerebrovascular disease. Measurement of carotid stenosis using DSA is
generally done using the NASCET method.2 Conventional
angiography is generally reserved for patients with conflicting imaging studies before CEA or in patients considered
for CAS. DSA provides high-quality imaging that is accurate, objective, and easy to interpret. It can identify lesions
from the aortic arch to the intracranial vessels. Major limitations of angiography that make it inappropriate as a
screening modality include its cost and associated risks,
specifically of stroke.83-85 Overall, DSA is most useful in
patients when less invasive imaging studies produce conflicting results. When DUS imaging is equivocal, DSA is
preferred over CT and MR in evaluating patients with renal
dysfunction (by minimizing contrast load), obesity, or indwelling ferromagnetic material, which render CTA or
MRA technically inadequate or difficult.
E. Comparison of CDUS, MRA, CTA, and DSA
The U.K. Health Technology Assessment concluded
that although contrast-enhanced MRA was the most accurate imaging modality overall, it was limited by unavailability, inaccessibility, and delays. Therefore, they concluded
that color DUS imaging remained the preferred imaging
modality for identifying patients with 70% to 99% stenosis.86 As such, CDUS is the preferred imaging modality for
the identification of asymptomatic stenosis.
This recommendation was based on several factors,
including low cost, a much higher number of strokes likely
to be prevented in the long-term by the rapid availability of
CDUS imaging in contrast with other imaging, and the
good sensitivity of imaging in detecting significant stenosis.
However, the Health Technology Assessment highlighted
the concern of the accuracy of DUS in diagnosing 50% to
69% stenosis, which carries a sensitivity of only 36% and a
specificity of 91%.86
The utility of CDUS will depend on the clinical presentation of the patient. In neurologically symptomatic patients, a diagnosis by CDUS of stenosis between 50% and
69% is sufficient to proceed with surgery based on its
specificity. However, a negative CDUS result would mandate another imaging study because of the low sensitivity of
CDUS in this setting. In neurologically asymptomatic patients, a moderate stenosis (50% to 69%) diagnosed by
CDUS should be confirmed by another imaging study
before intervention is undertaken.
F. Imaging after carotid intervention
The prevalence of carotid artery restenosis after CEA
varies between 1% and 37%,87-90 although symptomatic
recurrent stenoses is infrequent (0% to 8%).87 Factors associated with restenosis include continued smoking, small
ICA diameter, operative defect detected at intraoperative
assessment, and primary closure after CEA. The aggregate

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

incidence of residual and recurrent carotid stenosis after
CEA in ACAS was 13%.88 Of 136 patients who had restenosis, 8 (5.9%) underwent reoperation, only 1 of whom was
symptomatic. There was no correlation between late stroke
and recurrent stenosis. Similarly, Cao et al89 randomized
1353 patients who underwent CEA. Of these, the eversion
technique was used in 678, and standard CEA with primary
closure was done in 419 and patch closure in 256. The
life-table estimate of the cumulative risk of restenosis at 4
years was 4% in the eversion CEA group and 9% in the
standard CEA group, and 98% of these patients were
asymptomatic.
Several studies have reported the progression of contralateral stenosis after CEA.91-93 Contralateral carotid stenosis progression was more frequent than ipsilateral recurrent stenosis during the long-term follow-up in these
studies. These studies also identified that the risk of contralateral carotid artery stenosis progression depends on the
existing disease at the time of the initial CEA.91-93 The risk
of progression for moderate stenosis at the initial surveillance to severe stenosis can be as high as five times.92
Several large prospective studies94-99 have analyzed the
rate of carotid in-stent restenosis after CAS. More patients
had ⬎70% stenosis of the ipsilateral carotid artery 1 year
after CAS than after CEA (19% vs 5%). Use of CDUS to
diagnose post-CAS restenosis is confounded by changes in
the velocity criterion caused by the stent itself, and standard
diagnostic criteria do not apply. Artifacts associated with
both CTA and MRA similarly limit the utility of these
techniques in the post-CAS patient. DSA is required to
confirm restenosis after CAS identified by CDUS when
reintervention is contemplated. In contrast, CDUS is sufficient to diagnose and plan therapy for restenosis after
CEA.
● Recommendations for selection of carotid imaging modalities
1. CDUS in an accredited vascular laboratory is the initial
diagnostic imaging of choice for evaluating the severity
of stenosis in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients.
Unequivocal identification of stenosis of 50% to 99% in
neurologically symptomatic patients or 70% to 99% in
asymptomatic patients is sufficient to make a decision
regarding intervention (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A).
2. CDUS in an accredited vascular laboratory is the imaging modality of choice to screen asymptomatic populations at high risk (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
3. When CDUS is nondiagnostic or suggests stenosis of
intermediate severity (50% to 69%) in an asymptomatic
patient, additional imaging with MRA, CTA or DSA
is required before embarking on any intervention
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
4. When evaluation of the vessels proximal or distal to the
cervical carotid arteries is needed for diagnosis or to plan
therapy, imaging with CTA, MRA, or catheter angiography in addition to CDUS is indicated. CTA is preferable to MRI or MRA for delineating calcium. When
there is discordance between two minimally invasive

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

imaging studies (CDUS, MRA, CTA), DSA is indicated
to resolve conflicting results. DSA is generally reserved
for situations where there is inconclusive evidence of
stenosis on less invasive studies or when CAS is planned
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
5. A postoperative DUS study ⱕ30 days is recommended
to assess the status of the endarterectomized vessel. In
patients with ⱖ50% stenosis on this study, further
follow-up imaging to assess progression or resolution is
indicated. In patients with a normal DUS study result
and primary closure of the endarterectomy site, ongoing
imaging is recommended to identify recurrent stenosis.
In patients with a normal DUS after patch or eversion
endarterectomy, further imaging of the endarterectomized vessel may be indicated if the patient has multiple
risk factors for progression of atherosclerosis. There are
insufficient data to make recommendations on imaging
after CAS (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). Although
the data in this area are not robust concerning intervals
for follow-up imaging, the committee was unanimous in
this recommendation, recognizing that follow-up DUS
carries little risk.
6. Imaging after CAS or CEA is indicated to monitor
contralateral disease progression in patients with contralateral stenosis ⱖ50%. In patients with multiple risk
factors for vascular disease, follow-up DUS may be
indicated with lesser degrees of stenosis. The likelihood
of disease progression is related to the initial severity of
stenosis (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). Although
the data in this area are not robust concerning intervals
for follow-up imaging, the committee was unanimous in
this recommendation, recognizing that follow-up DUS
carries little risk.
III. MEDICAL MANAGEMENT OF PATIENTS
WITH CAROTID STENOSIS
Optimal medical management is an important part of
overall treatment of all patients with carotid bifurcation
disease, regardless of the degree of stenosis or the plan for
intervention. This therapy is directed both at the reduction
of stroke and overall cardiovascular events, including cardiovascular-related mortality. The best medical management for stroke prevention was highlighted in clinical practice guidelines issued jointly in 2006 by the AHA and the
American Stroke Association, and cosponsored by the
Council on Cardiovascular Radiology and Intervention and
the American Academy of Neurology.100
A. Treatment of hypertension
Elevated blood pressure increases the risk for stroke,101
and reducing blood pressure decreases the risk for
stroke.102 The relationship between blood pressure and
stroke risk is “continuous, consistent, and independent of
other risk factors.”103 The Framingham Heart study,104
the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study,105
and the Cardiovascular Health Study106 each found that
hypertension was independently associated with an elevated risk for carotid artery atherosclerosis. Each 10-mm

Ricotta et al e9

Hg increase in blood pressure results in an increase in risk
for stroke of 30% to 45%. Each 10-mm Hg reduction in
blood pressure amongst hypertensive patients decreases the
risk for stroke by 33%.102
Lowering blood pressure to a target ⬍140/90 mm Hg
by lifestyle interventions and antihypertensive treatment is
recommended in individuals who have hypertension with
asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis.100 Aggressive lowering of blood pressure may harm patients who have had a
recent stroke by reducing cerebral perfusion. In fact, the
Joint National Committee for the Prevention, Detection,
Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure-VII has
remained ambiguous regarding recommendations for
antihypertensive management in patients with a recent
stroke.103 However, antihypertensive therapy aimed at reducing blood pressures to ⬍140/90 is recommended for
patients who have had an ischemic stroke or TIA and are
beyond the hyperacute period.100
B. Treatment of diabetes mellitus
In the Cardiovascular Health Study, an elevated fasting
glucose level was associated with an increased risk for stroke
in patients with carotid atherosclerosis.107 The Insulin Resistance Atherosclerosis Study108 and the Atherosclerosis
Risk in the Community study109 showed that diabetes was
associated with intima-media thickness of the carotid artery
and with progression in intima-media thickness. The
United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS),110
the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes
(ACCORD)111 study, and the Action in Diabetes and
Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled
Evaluation (ADVANCE)112 trial all tested whether tight
control of serum glucose levels in diabetic patients would
reduce the risk for stroke. Despite achieving hemoglobin
A1C levels ⬍6.5%, no reduction in stroke risk was identified
in these trials. Glucose control to nearly normoglycemic
levels (target hemoglobin A1C ⬍7%) is recommended
among diabetic patients to reduce microvascular complications and, with lesser certainty, macrovascular complications other than stroke.
C. Treatment of lipid abnormalities
The relationship between elevated cholesterol and incident MI in patients with coronary artery atherosclerosis is
well established; however, the relationship between hypercholesterolemia and incident stroke is less clear. A metaanalysis of 45 studies of strokes in patients with hypercholesterolemia did not suggest an increased risk for stroke in
patients with elevated serum cholesterol.113 However, several other prospective studies in men and women have
subsequently identified an increase in incident stroke associated with elevated cholesterol levels.114-116
Patients with known atherosclerosis have demonstrated
reduced stroke rates when treated with lipid-lowering therapy. The Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial of statin
therapy in hypercholesterolemic patients observed that
greater reductions in levels of low-density lipoprotein
(LDL) were associated with a reduction in stroke risk. A

e10 Ricotta et al

meta-analysis of 26 trials observed that the risk of stroke
decreased by ⬎15% for every 10% reduction in serum
LDL117 in patients with known coronary or other atherosclerosis.
Further meta-analyses of statin trials that also reported
on stroke as an outcome have shown that statin therapy
reduces the risk of stroke by 15% to 30%.118 The Stroke
Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol trial
found that atorvastatin treatment of patients with a recent
stroke or TIA resulted in a reduction in stroke rate by 16%
over 5 years.119
It is less clear if aggressive lipid-lowering therapy results
in regression of carotid artery atherosclerosis. Aggressive
statin therapy in the Measuring Effects on Intima-Media
Thickness: an Evaluation of Rosuvastatin study,120 the
Arterial Biology for the Investigation of the Treatment
Effects of Reducing Cholesterol121 study, and the Atorvastatin vs Simvastatin on Atherosclerosis Progression122
study all showed increased regression of the carotid artery
intima-media thickness compared with controls.
Although LDL is the primary determinant of cardiovascular and stroke risk, low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol also influence stroke risk, and elevation of HDL has been shown to reduce the risk of
stroke.123 In an analysis of a large (⬎9200) series of patients, treated by dual therapy aimed at decreasing LDL and
raising HDL, elevation of HDL level was independently
associated with a reduction of stroke risk by a factor of 0.86.
Conversely, an elevated total cholesterol/HDL ratio increased stroke risk by a factor of 1.22. Reducing cholesterol
absorption has also been shown to reduce stroke risk in
patients with familial hypercholesterolemia.124 Overall,
however, the HDL level had much less effect on stroke risk
than did the level of LDL.
Elevated cholesterol, comorbid CAD, or evidence of
an atherosclerotic etiology of carotid stenosis should be
managed according to National Cholesterol Education
Program-Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines,125 which
include lifestyle modification or medications, or both. Statin agents are recommended targeting LDL of 100 mg/
dL, for those with coronary heart disease or symptomatic
atherosclerotic disease, and LDL of 70 mg/dL for very
high-risk persons with multiple risk factors.
D. Smoking cessation
Smoking nearly doubles the risk of stroke.126,127
Smoking also acts synergistically on other risk factors that
are known to increase the risk of stroke, such as CAD and
PAD. Conversely, smoking cessation results in a reduction
in risk for CAD and for coronary mortality.128 Cessation
also reduces the risk of stroke in men and women.128-130
Counseling and smoking cessation medications are effective in helping smokers to quit. Physician counseling is an
important and effective intervention that reduces smoking
in patients by 10% to 20%131 but continues to be underused.132 Nicotine replacement therapy, in the form of
patches and gums, is effective in reducing smoking.133

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

Patients with extracranial carotid stenosis who are smoking
cigarettes should be counseled to quit.
E. Antithrombotic treatment
No adequately powered studies have been performed
in asymptomatic patients with carotid atherosclerosis to
confirm a benefit with antithrombotic treatment in reducing incident stroke. The US Preventative Services
Task Force has recommended daily aspirin as cardiovascular prophylaxis in patients with anticipated cardiac
morbidity of ⬎3% for men aged ⬎45 years and in women
aged ⬎55 years.134 These recommendations are based
primarily on an observed reduction in overall cardiovascular morbidity and death with aspirin therapy. The
AHA Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease and
Stroke agrees with this recommendation.135 There is no
evidence to suggest that antiplatelet agents other than
aspirin have improved benefit in asymptomatic patients
with carotid atherosclerosis.
Evidence for antithrombotic treatment for secondary
prevention of recurrent stroke in symptomatic patients with
carotid atherosclerosis is more robust.100,136-139 The
choice of antiplatelet therapy among aspirin, clopidogrel,
and dipyridamole plus aspirin is not clearly defined because
the data are uncertain.
The Clopidogrel in Unstable Angina to Prevent Recurrent Events140 and Clopidogrel for the Reduction of
Events During Observation141 trials each showed a benefit
of clopidogrel plus aspirin compared with aspirin alone in
reducing vascular events in patients with prior acute coronary syndromes. The Management of Atherothrombosis
with Clopidogrel in High-risk Patients142 subsequently
demonstrated no significant difference in vascular events
between symptomatic patients with carotid stenosis treated
with clopidogrel plus aspirin compared with clopidogrel
alone.
Clopidogrel alone was initially shown to have a small
advantage over aspirin in this subset of patients in the
Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischaemic
Events143 trial. However, it costs more than aspirin, and
the subsequent Clopidogrel for High Atherothrombotic
Risk and Ischemic Stabilization, Management, and Avoidance144 trial showed that clopidogrel plus aspirin was
equivalent to aspirin alone in preventing vascular events in
patients with a prior stroke, TIA, or other cardiovascular
disease or in patients with high risk for cardiovascular
disease.
Antiplatelet agents are therefore recommended for patients with non-cardioembolic ischemic stroke or TIA associated with carotid atherosclerosis. Aspirin (50-325 mg/
d), the combination of aspirin and extended-release
dipyridamole, and clopidogrel, are all acceptable options
for initial therapy; a combination of aspirin and clopidogrel
is not recommended.
Aspirin is currently the most commonly used antiplatelet agent and one of the most frequently prescribed drugs,
with as many as 30 million Americans on long-term aspirin
regimens. A growing body of evidence suggests that some

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

Ricotta et al e11

Parenteral and oral anticoagulants are effective in the
prevention of embolic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation or prosthetic heart valves. However, warfarin anticoagulation has been shown to be less effective than antiplatelet therapy for secondary prevention of neurologic events in
patients with carotid atherosclerosis who do not have a
history of atrial fibrillation and is not indicated in patients
with symptoms of cerebral ischemia.150,151 The WarfarinAspirin Reduced Cardiac Ejection Fraction Study trial is
currently investigating the potential advantage in preventing cardioembolic stroke of anticoagulation vs aspirin in
patients with chronic congestive heart failure.152

␤-blockade therapy before CEA to achieve a stable blood
pressure and heart rate of 60 to 80 beats/min.153,154
Given the near ubiquity of this condition in patients with
carotid stenosis, ␤-blockade is nearly universally required
in this patient group.
Patients taking combined aspirin and clopidogrel therapy in the perioperative period have a 0.4% to 1.0% higher
risk of major bleeding compared with aspirin alone.155
Aspirin therapy alone does not have to be discontinued
before CEA.156 The risks of periprocedural MI from aspirin
withdrawal outweigh the risk of fatal or severe bleeding
from aspirin use. The ACC Perioperative Guidelines endorses the continued use of aspirin before and after
CEA.153 A low dose (81 to 325 mg) appears at least as
effective as higher doses, and higher doses may in fact be
less effective.157 Patients should continue aspirin therapy
after CEA indefinitely, according to recommendations for
high-risk patients with atherosclerosis.100,136-139
There has been a consensus that preprocedural clopidogrel should be stopped approximately 5 days before
elective CABG.46 Recent data from a large, retrospective,
multicentered clinical experience158 suggest that clopidogrel may be safely continued through the perioperative
period without increased bleeding risk. It is therefore reasonable to individualize the management of perioperative
clopidogrel therapy. There is no clear information regarding the risks or benefits of continued clopidogrel monotherapy in the periprocedural period for CEA.
One meta-analysis showed preoperative statin therapy
resulted in a significant reduction in perioperative mortality
in patients undergoing vascular surgery.159 One small randomized trial found that perioperative death, MI, and
stroke in patients undergoing vascular surgery was reduced
in the group treated with atorvastatin.160 In one large
observational study of hospital records of 780,591 patients
undergoing noncardiac surgery, the risk-adjusted mortality
rate was significantly lower in those who received perioperative statins than in those who were not taking statins (odds
ratio, 0.62; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.58-0.67).161
The evidence for continued use of statin therapy currently
remains largely observational. Furthermore, the optimal
time for starting therapy, the duration of therapy, dose, or
target LDL levels to be achieved still remain to be determined.

G. Medical management for the perioperative period
of CEA

H. Medical management for the perioperative period
of CAS

Hypertension is a common comorbidity in patients
undergoing CEA. Blood pressure fluctuations, both
above and below normal, are a significant source of
morbidity and may contribute to MI and postoperative
reperfusion syndrome. Careful periprocedural blood
pressure management is critical to obtaining optimal
results from the operation. Although the most recent
AHA guidelines do not classify CEA as a high-risk surgical procedure mandating ␤-blockade, they do indicate
that all patients with known CAD should receive

Antihypertensive, ␤-blocker, and lipid-lowering therapy should be initiated in patients undergoing CAS according to the same recommendations for CEA. Patients should
be started on dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin (325
mg) and clopidogrel (75 mg) or ticlopidine (250 mg). No
randomized trial has yet compared CAS performed with
dual-antiplatelet therapy vs aspirin alone. However, the
published periprocedural stroke, MI, and death rates in all
recent clinical trials have been achieved with this combination therapy.9,10,162,163 Dual-antiplatelet therapy should

patients compliant with aspirin therapy may still develop
atherothrombotic complications, such as stroke. Reduced
antiaggregant effect is more common in patients taking
lower-dose aspirin (81 mg) or 325 mg aspirin with an
enteric coating than it is in patients taking 325 mg of
noncoated aspirin daily.145 The lack of consensus for the
definition of aspirin resistance and for the specific laboratory test to identify it has led to large variability in its
reported prevalence.146 The routine laboratory evaluation
of platelet reactivity is not justifiable. The pharmacologic
response to clopidogrel also demonstrates significant interindividual variability.
Patients with reduced platelet inhibition in response to
clopidogrel appear to be at increased risk for cardiovascular
events. This resistance may result from reduced bioavailability, polymorphisms of cytochrome P450, additional
genetic variants, or increased platelet turnover.147 Prasugrel is an alternate platelet-inhibiting pharmacologic agent
of the same class as clopidogrel that does not have these
limitations. It has been approved for use in acute coronary
syndromes,148 but no data are available on its use for stroke
prevention.
As in the case of aspirin resistance, current evidence
does not suggest the routine use of platelet function or
genetic testing for clopidogrel resistance. In the absence of
randomized trial data, the general approach to patients
developing clinical events while taking aspirin or clopidogrel has been to confirm compliance and increase the
dosage, followed by the addition or substitution of another
antiplatelet agent.149 However, data in this area are insufficient to allow clear recommendations.
F. Anticoagulant therapy

e12 Ricotta et al

be continued for 1 month after the procedure, and aspirin
should be continued indefinitely.
● Recommendations for medical management of
patients with carotid atherosclerosis
1. In patients with carotid artery stenosis, treatment of
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and efforts at
smoking cessation are recommended to reduce overall
cardiovascular risk and risk of stroke regardless of
whether intervention is planned. Targets are those defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program
guidelines (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A).
2. Aggressive treatment of hypertension in the setting of
acute stroke is not recommended; however, treatment of
hypertension after this period has passed is associated
with reduced risk of subsequent stroke. The target parameters are not well defined (GRADE 1, Level of
Evidence C).
3. Treatment of diabetes with the goal of tight glucose
control has not been shown to reduce stroke risk or
decrease complication rates after CEA and is not recommended for these purposes (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence A).
4. Anticoagulation is not recommended for the treatment
of TIA or acute stroke, unless there is evidence of a
cardioembolic source (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
5. Antiplatelet therapy in asymptomatic patients with carotid atherosclerosis is recommended to reduce overall
cardiovascular morbidity, although it has not been
shown to be effective in the primary prevention of stroke
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A).
6. Antiplatelet therapy is recommended for secondary
stroke prevention: aspirin, aspirin combined with dipyridamole, and clopidogrel are all effective. Clopidogrel
combined with aspirin is not more effective than either
drug alone (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
7. Perioperative medical management of patients undergoing carotid revascularization should include blood
pressure control (⬍140/80 mm Hg), ␤-blockade
(heart rate, 60-80 beats/min), and statin therapy (LDL
⬍100 mg/dL) (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
8. Perioperative antithrombotic therapy for CEA should
include aspirin (81-325 mg) (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A). The use of clopidogrel in the perioperative
period should be decided case-by-case (GRADE 2 Level
of Evidence B).
9. Perioperative antithrombotic management of CAS patients should include dual-antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and ticlopidine or clopidogrel. Dual-antiplatelet
therapy should be initiated at least 3 days before CAS
and continued for 1 month, and aspirin therapy
should be continued indefinitely (GRADE 1, Level of
Evidence C).
IV. TECHNICAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
CAROTID INTERVENTIONS
The efficacy of carotid interventions depends on minimizing perioperative complication rates. This involves ap-

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

propriate risk factor assessment and patient selection,
perioperative therapy, and performance of a technically
excellent operation. Perioperative therapy and medical
management have been discussed in the previous sections.
Specific recommendations on techniques to reduce complications of CEA and CAS are beyond the scope of this report
and can be found elsewhere.164,165 However, some general
recommendations can be made regarding the conduct of
CEA and CAS.
A. Carotid endarterectomy
Among the variables that have been studied to determine their effect on the outcome of CEA are local vs
regional anesthesia, routine vs selective use of shunts, monitoring of brain function during the procedure, routine
patch closure after endarterectomy, and completion imaging. Although several authors have suggested that use of
regional or local anesthesia is associated with a reduced
incidence of perioperative hemodynamic changes and cardiac events, a prospective randomized trial166 and systematic review of the literature167 failed to show any difference
between the two anesthetic approaches.
An abundant literature exists on the indications identifying patients at risk of flow-related ischemia during CEA
and the role of shunting in reducing this complication.
Factors associated with increased risk of cerebral ischemia
during carotid cross-clamping, and therefore the increased likelihood that a shunt will be needed, during CEA, include recent stroke, contralateral carotid occlusion, and
symptoms suggestive of hemodynamic cerebral insufficiency.168,169 Despite extensive study on the routine or
selective use of shunts and cerebral monitoring during
CEA, no clear benefit of one approach over the other has
emerged.170
The routine use of completion imaging after CEA also
remains an area of controversy. Although a number of
authors have reported detecting abnormalities in 5% to 10%
of patients using completion DUS imaging,171,172 and a
cost-benefit analysis suggests completion DUS imaging
increases quality-adjusted life-years by 2%,173 the clinical
significance of many of these abnormalities is uncertain,
and several series have reported excellent results without
use of completion imaging.174-176 Like the choice of anesthesia and shunting, completion imaging remains a matter
of personal preference.
There are, however, data to recommend the use of
patch angioplasty or eversion endarterectomy over standard endarterectomy with primary closure. Women and
individuals with small ICAs are at most risk of early neurologic events and late restenosis if standard endarterectomy
with primary closure is performed. Randomized studies
have shown the benefit of patch closure over primary
closure in patients undergoing standard CEA.177 The type
of patch material does not appear to have a significant effect
on outcome. Prospective comparisons of eversion CEA
with primary closure178 have demonstrated a benefit of the
eversion technique for reduction of early and late stroke.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

This has been borne out by low rates of early stroke and late
restenosis in large single-center reports.179
A number of investigations have studied the relationship of operative volume and specialty training with outcome. Although data suggest that there is some relationship between operative volume and outcome, the effect
appears less than with other procedures.180 In a large study
of Medicare populations in Maryland and California, surgeons who perform 10 to 15 CEAs per year have better
results than those who perform ⬍5 procedures annually,
but there was no added benefit to performing more than
this relatively low threshold. There has been no consistent
relationship between surgical specialty and outcome, and
any effect seen is likely related to volume rather than
specialty designation.8,180,181
B. Carotid artery stenting
The periprocedural management of the CAS patient
has been discussed in a previous section. Periprocedural
antiplatelet therapy is mandatory, and appropriate attention to access vessels and the status of the aortic arch is
required for optimal results. The technical conduct of the
CAS involves access of the target vessel, crossing the target
lesion, and stent deployment. Technical issues related to
carotid stenting include achieving a stable platform for the
procedure, use of embolic protection devices, stent dilation
before deployment, stent selection, and postdeployment
dilation.
Stable sheath access in the proximal CCA is required.
This depends on appropriate patient selection, as described
above. Once a stable platform is obtained, a decision must
be made about use of a cerebral protection device. In
general, cerebral protection device deployment has been
suggested to reduce the incidence of distal embolization
and, potentially, the risk of stroke.182,183 Although this
position is not supported by robust data, it has been generally accepted by the medical community, and use of an
embolic protection device has been required by Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services to qualify for reimbursement.
Several embolic protection devices are available, and
selection depends on lesion characteristics and anatomic
considerations. Options include proximal or distal occlusion devices designed to interrupt forward flow during the
procedure and filter devices placed distal to the lesion
designed to trap debris released during the procedure.
Distal occlusion devices have the advantage of a smaller
diameter than proximal occlusion devices, but the lesion
must be crossed before the device is placed in the ICA, a
maneuver that can itself cause embolization. At the end of
the procedure, suction is applied between the sheath in the
CCA and the balloon occluding the distal internal carotid
artery to remove debris.
Proximal occlusion devices require placement of two
occlusion balloons, one each in the common and external
carotid artery, with flow reversal by suction or creation of a
proximal arteriovenous connection.184 Placement of a
proximal occlusion device avoids crossing the lesion before

Ricotta et al e13

protection is in place and has been associated with the
lowest incidence of distal embolization as detected by
transcranial Doppler imaging or postoperative MRI.184-186
The main procedural disadvantages of the current
proximal occlusion devices are the relatively large size (9F)
of the access sheath, the need to occlude both the common
and external carotid artery, and the need to establish venous
access for continuous flow reversal. Proximal and distal
occlusion devices may both be problematic in patients with
poor intracranial collateral circulation because they mandate cessation—and sometimes reversal— of antegrade flow
in the ICA. This situation is generally encountered in ⱕ5%
of patients and may be managed by short intermittent
inflation times.
Distal filters are deployed in the distal ICA and trap
debris released during angioplasty and stent deployment.
Like distal occlusion devices, they have the advantage of a
smaller diameter (6F), but the lesion must be initially
crossed in an unprotected fashion. These filters come in a
variety of configurations and pore sizes. Their efficacy is
related to the degree with which they can reliably achieve
complete apposition to the distal arterial wall. They have
the advantage that antegrade ICA flow can be maintained
throughout the procedure; however, the filter may become
completely occluded if large amounts of debris are released,
and debris may escape distally during filter recapture.
The choice of filter device is often related to individual
preference and familiarity. Some authors believe proximal
occlusion with flow reversal is preferable in nearly all circumstances; however, this technique has its greatest advantage in lesions with a high risk of embolization (markedly
irregular plaque, echolucent lesions, active symptoms) or in
those that may be difficult to cross due to tortuosity or
severe narrowing because protection is in place before the
lesion is manipulated. Use of a filter over proximal or distal
occlusion is preferred if there is a likelihood that interruption of antegrade ICA flow will not be tolerated. Distal
occlusion devices are preferred to filters when the distal
ICA anatomy suggests that compete apposition of filter to
the distal ICA wall may be difficult due to size or tortuosity.
Direct comparison of proximal occlusion with flow
reversal vs distal protection shows that proximal protection
with flow reversal results in the lowest embolic load165,185
However, no device can completely eliminate the risk of
embolization during CAS. The fact that no embolic protection is completely effective and that some emboli originate during cannulation of the aortic arch and the proximal
great vessels suggests that although improvements to embolization after CAS can be made, the problem cannot be
eliminated.
Studies using postoperative diffusion-weighted MRI
shown increased 17% incidence of MRI-identified infarcts
in patients undergoing CAS compared with CEA (adjusted
risk ratio, 5.21).10 Although these are generally subclinical,
recent reports suggest these lesions might be associated
with subtle long-term neurologic changes. Echolucent lesions are more likely to be associated with increased embolic risk, whereas recurrent stenoses or fibrous lesions are

e14 Ricotta et al

associated with a decreased risk of procedural embolization.66,96,165,184
Stent predilation is not recommended unless a filter
cannot be passed. Stent selection is often based on physician preference. The only large study to test the effect of cell
size suggests that closed-cell stents more effectively constrain the carotid plaque and reduce embolization,187 but
there is no consensus on that point. Open-cell stents are
more conformable than closed-cell stents and are preferred
by some in tortuous anatomy. Once the stent has been
deployed, postdilation is used to ensure stent apposition to
the plaque, but vigorous postdilation to achieve anatomic
perfection is avoided.
The learning curve associated with CAS has been the
object of considerable study. The Endarterectomy Versus
Angioplasty in Patients With Symptomatic Severe Carotid
Stenosis162 (EVA-3S) study was criticized because of the
requirement that interventionalists perform only 25 procedures to qualify for participation in the trial. The Carotid
Revascularization Endarterectomy versus Stenting Trial
(CREST) study required a significant lead-in phase for
interventionalists and documentation of low procedural
morbidity.188,189 It is worth noting that CREST is associated with the lowest periprocedural complication rate in the
literature. There are data in the literature that suggest
achieving a low predictable complication rate after CAS
requires a higher level of initial and ongoing experience
than current guidelines suggest.97,190,191
No relationship has been demonstrated between specialty and outcome. Data from CREST demonstrate that
vascular surgeons, cardiologists, interventional radiologists, and interventional neurologists can all achieve comparable results with CAS and that experience is more important than specialty designation in assuring optimal
outcomes.188,189
● Recommendations regarding CEA and CAS technique
1. Patch angioplasty or eversion endarterectomy are recommended rather than primary closure to reduce the
early and late complications of CEA (GRADE 1, Level
of Evidence A).
2. Use of an embolic protection device (proximal or distal
occlusion, distal filter) is recommended during CAS to
reduce the risk of cerebral embolization (GRADE 1,
Level of Evidence B).
V. SELECTING THE APPROPRIATE THERAPY:
MEDICAL MANAGEMENT, CAS, OR CEA
Once a patient with a clinically significant carotid stenosis is identified, appropriate treatment must be selected.
Treatment is primarily directed at the reduction of stroke
risk. The risks of an interventional treatment must be
considered when treatment choices are made. In general,
rates of stroke, MI, and death have been used when comparing CAS with CEA. In most clinical trials comparing
CAS with CEA, stroke, MI, and death have been given

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

equal weight in determining a composite end point to test
overall efficacy.
Data from CREST,9 however, indicate that stroke has a
more significant effect on quality of life at 1 year than
nonfatal MI. Because the primary goal of intervention in
carotid stenosis is stroke prevention, in developing its recommendations, the committee placed more emphasis on
the prevention of stroke and procedurally related death
than the occurrence of periprocedural MI. This may result
in committee recommendations that differ from the published results of some trials where these three end points
were given equal weight in analysis.
Treatment is chosen based on the assessment of risk
associated with intervention and the likelihood that a particular intervention will favorably alter the course of the
disease. The major determinants of the clinical course of
patients with carotid bifurcation stenosis are the presence
or absence of neurologic symptoms and the degree of
carotid bifurcation stenosis. The threat of stroke in asymptomatic patients with ⬍60% ICA stenosis and in symptomatic patients with 50% stenosis is generally considered to be
small and does not warrant intervention. ECST and
NASCET2-4 demonstrated that CEA was unable to reduce
the subsequent neurologic event rates in patients with
symptoms of cerebral ischemia and bifurcation stenosis of
⬍50% diameter reduction and was actually associated with
increased morbidity compared with medical management.
Stenoses of ⬍60% diameter reduction were excluded from
the asymptomatic studies,5,6 assuming that asymptomatic
patients with stenosis ⬍60% would not benefit from carotid
reconstruction. Given the findings of the symptomatic trials, this proved to be an appropriate decision. There have
been no studies supporting either CEA or CAS for this
cohort of patients.16
A. Assessing the risk associated with intervention
CEA and CAS are each associated with specific clinical
scenarios that increase their respective risks. This section
provides information to identify conditions that pose an
increased risk for CAS or CEA and thereby help select the
most appropriate therapy. When the risk of intervention is
sufficiently increased due to the presence of one or more of
these factors, medical therapy may be more appropriate
than CEA or CAS.
In the initial CAS trials, a series of anatomic and
physiologic criteria were developed by a consensus panel
in an attempt to identify “high-risk” CEA patients who
might be expected to benefit from CAS.192 Although
these criteria were used to enroll patients in CAS trials
and registries, their ability to define “high risk” was
never validated in a prospective manner. In fact, some
have suggested that CEA could be safely performed in
most of these patients.193,194 As CAS experience matured, certain conditions have been shown to be associated with increased complications after CAS. Risk stratification can generally be divided into two categories:
anatomic (including the lesion) characteristics and physiologic characteristics.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

1. Anatomic and lesion characteristics.
a. Lesion location. CEA provides excellent access to
the cervical carotid artery, but lesions that extend outside
this zone can be difficult to treat surgically. Lesions at or
above the level of the C2 cervical vertebra or below the
clavicle are generally more difficult to expose surgically for
CEA without increasing the morbidity of the operation.
Lesions of the distal cervical carotid artery can be exposed
by division of the digastric muscle and subluxation or
division of the mandible, as required.195,196 Although
rarely required, these high carotid exposures may be associated with increased difficulty in directly visualizing the
end point of the endarterectomy and with increased incidence of cranial nerve injury, particularly cranial nerve
IX.195,196 Lesions of the very proximal CCAs are difficult
or impossible to expose without extending the incision into
the chest. This must be considered when evaluating the
morbidity of the procedure.
b. Lesion characteristics. Lesion-specific characteristics
are thought to increase the risk of cerebral vascular events
after CAS66,197 and include a “soft” lipid-rich plaque identified on noninvasive imaging, extensive (15 mm or more)
disease, a preocclusive lesion, and circumferential heavy
calcification. A recent publication using multivariate logistic regression analysis of a large patient cohort demonstrated increased periprocedural stroke risk (odds ratios,
2.5-5.6) among patients with lesions ⬎15 mm, excessive
calcification, and ulceration.197 An earlier study has shown
a periprocedural stroke risk (odds ratio, 7.1) among patients with a lipid-rich plaque treated with CAS.66
The CAS procedure requires manipulation of a wire
and a self-expanding stent through the carotid lesion. Unstable plaque increases the risk of embolization during
placement of the wire or stent across the carotid lesion. This
can be reduced, but not eliminated, by using flow-reversal
embolic protection rather than distal filter protection.185
Long segment lesions may require the placement of multiple stents, and this situation and preocclusive stenoses are
both associated with a higher risk of acute or late stent
occlusion. Heavy circumferential calcification makes lesion
dilation more difficult and also increases the risk of embolization with CAS. There are no lesion specific characteristics that increase the risk of CEA.
c. Other anatomic considerations. Several anatomic
situations may increase the difficulty of CEA. These
include reoperation after prior CEA, existence of a cervical stoma, history of neck radiotherapy with resultant
local fibrotic changes of the skin and soft tissues, and
previous ablative neck surgery, such as radical neck dissection and laryngectomy.193-195,198
While CEA can be successfully performed in these situations, particularly when the tissues of the ipsilateral neck are
not scarred and fibrotic, these situations can increase the risk
of wound infection, difficulty of dissection, and potentially,
the incidence of cranial nerve injury. The presence of a short,
thick neck in an obese patient may make dissection more

Ricotta et al e15

tedious but has not in itself proven to be associated with
increased operative risk.
Anatomic factors to consider with CAS are related to
access issues. Successful CAS requires remote access of the
ICA artery using a stable platform to avoid the intravascular
motion of sheaths, stents, and protection devices during
the procedure. Anatomic factors that may complicate this
process include aortoiliac tortuosity, a sharply angulated
aortic arch (type III), or a carotid lesion with more than two
90° bends within a short distance of the target lesion.197
Significant distal ICA tortuosity may also complicate the
placement and stabilization of a distal embolic protection
device. An aortic arch with heavy calcium or a high atherosclerotic burden is also associated with an increased risk
with CAS. This is felt to be the main reason that CAS results
are worse in patients aged ⬎80 years.199,200
2. Patient characteristics. It seems intuitive that the
risk of periprocedural events after CEA or CAS might be
increased in patients presenting with severe comorbid conditions, including dialysis-dependent renal failure, New
York Heart Association class III or IV heart disease, left
ventricular ejection fraction ⬍30%, class III or IV angina
pectoris, left main or multivessel coronary disease, severe
aortic valvular disease, oxygen- or steroid-dependent pulmonary disease, or both, contralateral carotid occlusion,
and advanced age. However, little data exist to support one
therapy over another in these patients.162,163 In fact, defining a high-risk patient is much more subjective than defining a high-risk lesion.193,194,201,202
As will be seen later, CAS is associated with a lower
incidence of cardiac events than is seen in CEA. Therefore,
CAS would be preferred over CEA when severe cardiac
comorbidities exist in neurologically symptomatic patients.
Chronic renal insufficiency has been associated with increased risk of stroke and death after CAS203,204 and
CEA.205,206 Univariate and multivariate analysis both show
that the risk of death, stroke, and MI after CAS at 6 months
was associated with hazard ratios ⬎2.5 among patients with
chronic kidney disease.204 Chronic renal insufficiency also
increases the risk of stroke after CEA (1.08% to 5.56%).
Among asymptomatic patients with cardiac or renal insufficiency, best medical therapy may be preferable to CAS or
CEA. CEA or CAS may be considered among symptomatic
high-risk patients with moderate to severe carotid stenosis,
but the effectiveness over medical therapy is not well
established.
There are conflicting data on the influence of contralateral occlusion on the outcome of CEA or CAS. NASCET
reported that a contralateral occlusion increased the risk of
stroke after CEA from 5.8% to approximately 14%.207
However, most reports regarding contralateral occlusion
do not bear this observation out, and a meta-analysis of the
literature suggests a much more modest increase, from
2.4% to 3.7%.208,209 This was statistically significant, but
the results remain within the AHA recommended guidelines. Several single-center studies have shown excellent
results in patients with contralateral carotid occlusion.210,211 A possible explanation for this discrepancy is an

e16 Ricotta et al

inadequate sample size in the single-center studies. Alternatively, a more consistent technique of intraoperative
management in single-center reports, including, algorithms
for maintaining intraoperative cerebral perfusion, are more
likely to occur in single-center experience than in multicentered studies.
CEA is associated with a lower stroke risk than CAS in
patients aged ⬎80 years.152,161,162 A combined death,
stroke, and MI rate of ⱖ10% has been seen in octogenarians
treated with CAS.152,161 In the CREST study, CAS was
associated with an increased stroke risk in patients aged
⬎70 years9 and appeared to have a benefit compared with
CEA in patients aged ⬍70 years, although no other studies
have reported this association to date.
Because there is a demonstrable incidence of cranial
nerve injury after CEA that is absent after CAS, patients
with a history of a contralateral vocal cord paralysis are at
increased risk with CEA vs CAS; thus, CAS would be
preferred in these patients.
B. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with carotid
artery stenosis of 60% or more
1. CEA for asymptomatic lesions. Patients with
asymptomatic lesions are currently responsible for nearly all
of the carotid interventions performed in the United
States.7 Controlled randomized trials have compared CEA
with best medical therapy, but there are a paucity of data on
the role of CAS in asymptomatic patients. The results of
ACAS5 and ACST6 favored CEA in the management of
these patients. ACAS demonstrated the superiority of CEA
over antiplatelet therapy alone for asymptomatic patients
with carotid stenosis of ⱖ60%. This trial recommended
CEA for these patients (aged ⬍80 years) as long as the
expected combined stroke and mortality rate for the individual surgeon was not ⬎3%.
The long-term effectiveness of CEA in asymptomatic
patients was confirmed by the recently updated results of
ACST I, as reported by Halliday et al.212 Compared with
the randomized medical arm, where patients primarily received antithrombotic and antihypertensive therapy, the
patients in the CEA arm (aged ⬍75 years) experienced
significantly lower perioperative and 10-year stroke rates
(13.3% vs 17.9%). The strength of these conclusions
have been questioned, based on the relatively modest
absolute benefits of CEA and the contention that the
medical therapy arm did not reflect contemporary medical management.213,214
The question of whether modern medical therapy (including statins) is equivalent or superior to CEA or CAS has
not yet been addressed by well-designed, appropriately
funded, prospective, multicenter, and randomized trials.
An upcoming multicenter randomized trial designed to
answer the role of modern pharmacologic therapy in the
management of asymptomatic carotid stenosis is the StentProtected Angioplasty in Asymptomatic Carotid Artery
Stenosis (SPACE-II) study,215 which will include best
medical therapy as the third arm of the trial together with
CEA and CAS.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

Concerns have also been raised about whether the
results of the controlled trials could be attained in general
practice. Critics pointed out that these trials were performed in centers of excellence and that the patients were
highly selected. However, subsequent reports on patients
who would have been excluded from these trials suggest
that the exclusion criterion did not falsely lower complication rates. Combined stroke and death rates after CEA in
patients defined as high-risk or eligible for high-risk carotid
registries varied between 1.4% and 3.6%, well within the
AHA guidelines.193,194,210 Similarly, studies of large National Surgical Quality Improvement Program, state, and
Medicare databases of between 4,000 and 35,000 patients7,8,176,215 demonstrated stroke and death rates as low
as 2.2% with a maximum of 6.9% (symptomatic patients
only), suggesting that results that conform to national
guidelines are achievable across large patient populations.
2. CAS in asymptomatic lesions. Very few studies
have specifically addressed the outcome of carotid stenting
in asymptomatic patients. CAS has been applied in asymptomatic patients based on the benefit seen for CEA, with
the expectation that it would be equivalent or superior to
CEA because of its less invasive nature. Many studies of
CAS have been in the form of “high-risk” registries.96,97,163,216-219 Others, such as the Carotid and Vertebral Artery Transluminal Angioplasty Study (CAVATAS)
trial not, only had a small overall usage of stents (26%), but
only 16 of 504 patients (⬍5%) in the study population were
asymptomatic.220 A single-institution study by Brook et
al85 comparing CEA with stenting in asymptomatic patients was also limited by the small number of patients and
the lack of major postprocedural complications in either
group.221
Another trial that suffered from a limited number of
patients (⬍100 asymptomatic CAS) in addition to lack of
randomization was the Carotid Revascularization using
Endarterectomy or Stenting Systems (CaRESS) study. The
primary outcomes were not stratified according to the
presence or absence of neurologic symptoms, probably
because of the small number of enrollees. The overall
30-day composite of death/stroke/MI was not statistically
significantly different for CEA (4.4%) or for CAS (2.1%),
and noninferiority of CAS was not demonstrated by statistical methodology.222
In 2004, the Stenting and Angioplasty with Protection
in Patients at High Risk for Endarterectomy (SAPPHIRE)
trial, which included “high-risk” patients, 70% of whom
were asymptomatic, demonstrated that the results of stenting with cerebral protection devices were not inferior to
those obtained with CEA.94 The primary end point of the
study was the 30-day cumulative incidence of death/
stroke/MI, which was 5.4% for asymptomatic patients who
underwent CAS and 10.2% for CEA (P ⫽ .20).
The critics of this study raised several important issues,
including the criteria used to define high-risk patients for
CEA, the failure to randomize ⬎50% of eligible patients,
the unexpected high incidence of postoperative stroke,
particularly in the asymptomatic patients, and questions

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

about reporting bias. A number of critics suggested that the
absolute complication rates of both CAS and CEA in this
study could not be used to justify either intervention in
asymptomatic patients.223,224 Murad et al11 found that
asymptomatic patients accounted for a minority of all patients entered in 13 trials of CAS vs CEA and that clear
conclusions on the treatment of asymptomatic patients
were not possible.
CREST9 has been the only recent multicenter randomized trial that entered a significant number of individuals
(1181 patients) with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis.
The published results show that although the risk of stroke
with CAS was greater than for CEA in the asymptomatic
patients, this was not statistically significant. The difference
between CAS and CEA in asymptomatic patients for any
periprocedural stroke was 2.5% vs 1.4%, respectively, and
any periprocedural stroke, death, or postprocedural ipsilateral stroke was 2.5% vs 1.4%, respectively. These results for
CAS and CEA were both within the AHA recommended
guidelines.13 In addition, the primary composite end point
of the study that included any periprocedural stroke, death,
MI, or postprocedural ipsilateral stroke was 3.5% for CAS
and 3.6% for CEA (P ⫽ 0.96). These results are considerably better than any other large study, including ACAS and
ACST for both procedures.225
The CREST results confirm that CEA and CAS can be
done with relatively low complication rates in asymptomatic patients when performed by highly experienced practitioners who use their best judgment to select the most
appropriate patient to be entered into the study. This study
provides a benchmark to strive for, but no other large trials
have achieved these results.
Unfortunately, the authors did not record the number
of patients excluded from the study because they were not
considered “good” candidates for any of the proposed
procedures. Thus, the true applicability of CEA and CAS in
the general population is unknown. This observation may
lead one to believe that the CREST results reflect the best
possible selection of candidates for CAS. This is particularly
true when these results are compared with the considerably
worse results presented in SAPPHIRE, the only other
extant trial with a large number of asymptomatic patients.
Data published by the Society for Vascular Surgery
Outcomes Committee demonstrated that real-world CAS
was associated with a significantly higher rate of major
complications than CEA in asymptomatic patients.226 The
30-day outcome analysis of CAS and CEA in 2818 patients
revealed the combined death, stroke, or MI rate for 1450
CAS patients was 4.6% vs 1.97% for 1368 CEA patients.
Other studies of larger databases7,8,201,215 have yielded
similar results.
Further conclusions on the role of intervention in
asymptomatic patients await the results of two additional
randomized prospective studies designed to compare the
early and long-term results of CEA vs CAS and best medical
management: The Carotid Stenting vs Surgery of Severe
Carotid Artery Disease and Stroke Prevention in Asymptomatic Patients (ACT I) and, the Asymptomatic Carotid

Ricotta et al e17

Surgery Trial (ACST-2).227 Results are not expected until
at least 2018.
3. Medical management of asymptomatic carotid
stenosis. There has been an increasing call for trials to
compare modern medical management of carotid stenosis
with both CEA and CAS.213,214 This is based on the
relatively modest absolute stroke reduction in both ACAS
and ACST,5,6 the effect of optimal medical management on
stroke risk (see Section III), and the rates of stroke reported
in SAPPHIRE and many carotid stent registries, all of
which contain a significant number of asymptomatic patients. Operation for asymptomatic carotid stenosis should
only be undertaken in good-risk patients where excellent
results can be documented. In patients with a short life
expectancy or multiple risk factors, medical management is
likely to be superior to intervention. As noted, several
studies have been designed to test the ultimate role of
medical vs interventional management in asymptomatic
carotid disease.
C. Neurologically symptomatic patients with 50% or
greater carotid artery stenosis
1. CEA in symptomatic stenosis. NASCET and
ECST both demonstrated the benefit of CEA in neurologically symptomatic patients with carotid stenosis that reduced diameter ⬎50%.2-4 NASCET demonstrated an absolute risk reduction in stroke of 17% at 2 years (24% in
medical arm vs 7% in surgical arm) for patients with ⬎70%
carotid stenosis. ECST demonstrated a similar stroke risk in
this group after 3 years in the medical arm, 26.5% with a
stroke risk in the surgical group of 7%, an absolute reduction of 14.9%. In both studies, the risk of stroke in the
medical arm, and therefore the benefit of CEA, increased
with the degree of stenosis. The results of these trials firmly
established CEA as the treatment of choice for patients with
severe carotid stenosis and are widely accepted throughout
the medical community. The benefit of CEA in more
moderate stenosis of 50% to 69% was more moderate—
15.7% stroke after CEA vs 22.2% stroke with medical
therapy at 5 years— but still statistically significant.3 Stenoses ⬍50% were not benefited by CEA.
2. CAS in symptomatic stenosis. A number of trials
have examined the role of CAS in the management of
neurologically symptomatic patients with ⬎50% diameter
stenosis. As previously mentioned, SAPPHIRE demonstrated overall equivalence of CAS and CEA in the management of carotid stenosis, although the number of symptomatic patients was too small for subgroup analysis.94 Two
large prospective randomized European trials, EVA-3S162
and SPACE1,228 examined the role of CAS vs CEA in
neurologically symptomatic patients. EVA-3S showed a
statistically inferior outcome for CAS compared with CEA
(stroke death, 9.5% vs 3.8%) in these patients. This study
was criticized because of the relatively low level of experience (minimum of 25 CAS cases) required in the CAS arm.
The Stent-Supported Percutaneous Angioplasty of the
Carotid Artery versus Endarterectomy (SPACE) trial was
designed to test “equivalence” between CEA and CAS in

e18 Ricotta et al

patients with neurologic symptoms. This trial stopped after
recruitment of 1200 patients due to the futility of proving
equivalence between the two treatments. The rate of death
or ipsilateral stroke at 30 days was 6.84% for CAS and 6.34%
for CEA in 1183 randomized patients. However, the study
was not powered appropriately and failed to show noninferiority of CAS compared with CEA (P ⫽ .09).
Subsequently the International Carotid Stenting Study
Trial (ICST),10 which enrolled 1713 patients, demonstrated an increased stroke risk for CAS (7.7%) compared
with CEA (4.1%) in neurologically symptomatic patients.
This observed difference was significant (P ⫽ .002). The
rate of any stroke or death ⱕ30 days of treatment in the
stenting group was more than twice the rate the rate
recorded in the endarterectomy group (7.4% vs 3.4%, P ⫽
.0004). In addition, the composite end point of stroke,
death, and MI significantly favored CEA (5.2%) vs CAS
(8.5%; P ⫽ .006). It is of interest to note that the authors of
this trial highlight the fact that they observed a higher rate
of fatal MIs with CAS than with CEA. This observation has
not been confirmed in other large studies, including
CREST, and in meta-analysis, where the incidence of MI is
higher in the CEA group.11
D. Meta-analysis: CEA vs CAS
Murad et al11 recently completed an updated metaanalysis of all published trials comparing CEA and CAS in
the management of patients with carotid stenosis. This
analysis included data from the most recently completed
randomized studies, CREST and ICST, which comprised
56% of all reported patients. Their analysis concluded that,
compared with CEA, CAS was associated with a significantly reduced risk of perioperative MI (relative risk reduction [RRR], 0.43) and a significantly increased risk of any
periprocedural stroke (RRR, 1.48). CAS was associated
with an increased risk of periprocedural death (RRR, 1.40)
that did not reach statistical significance. The risk of ipsilateral major stroke did not differ between the two procedures
(RRR, 1.00), although the studies were underpowered to
test this effect.
● Recommendations for selecting therapy
1. For neurologically symptomatic patients with stenosis
⬍50% or asymptomatic patients with stenosis ⬍60%
diameter reduction, optimal medical therapy is indicated. There are no data to support CAS or CEA in this
patient group (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
2. In most patients with carotid stenosis who are candidates for intervention, CEA is preferred to CAS for
reduction of all-cause stroke and periprocedural death
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B). Data from CREST
suggest that patients aged ⬍70 years may be better
treated by CAS, but these data need further confirmation.
3. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with ⱖ60% diameter stenosis should be considered for CEA for reduction of
long-term risk of stroke, provided the patient has a 3- to

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

5-year life expectancy and perioperative stroke/death rates
can be ⱕ3% (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence A).
4. CEA is preferred over CAS in patients aged ⬎70 years
of age, with long (⬎15-mm) lesions, preocclusive
stenosis, or lipid-rich plaques that can be completely
removed safely by a cervical incision in patients who
have a virgin, nonradiated neck (GRADE 1, Level of
Evidence A).
5. CAS is preferred over CEA in symptomatic patients with
ⱖ50% stenosis and tracheal stoma, situations where
local tissues are scarred and fibrotic from prior ipsilateral
surgery or external beam radiotherapy, prior cranial
nerve injury, and lesions that extend proximal to the
clavicle or distal to the C2 vertebral body (GRADE 2,
Level of Evidence B). CEA may be preferable in situations where ipsilateral tissue planes remain relatively
intact.
6. CAS is preferred over CEA in symptomatic patients with
ⱖ50% stenosis and severe uncorrectable CAD, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). In making this a
GRADE 2 recommendation, the committee recognized
the difficulty in clearly defining this group of individuals,
both in symptomatology and risk assessment, and acknowledged the potential increased role of aggressive
medical management as primary therapy in this highrisk group.
7. Neurologically asymptomatic patients deemed “high
risk” for CEA should be considered for primary medical
management. CEA can be considered in these patients
only with evidence that perioperative morbidity and
mortality is ⬍3%. CAS should not be performed in these
patients except as part of an ongoing clinical trial
(GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
8. There are insufficient data to recommend CAS as primary therapy for neurologically asymptomatic patients
with 70% to 99% diameter stenosis. Data from CREST
suggest that in properly selected asymptomatic patients,
CAS is equivalent to CEA in the hands of experienced
interventionalists. Operators and institutions performing CAS must exhibit expertise sufficient to meet the
previously established AHA guidelines for treatment of
patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Specifically, the combined stroke and death rate must be ⬍3%
to ensure benefit for the patient (GRADE 2, Level of
Evidence B).
VI. UNUSUAL CONDITIONS ASSOCIATED
WITH CAROTID STENOSIS
Vascular surgeons will encounter a number of clinical
scenarios where the role of carotid intervention is not well
established. Oftentimes the data regarding treatment are
relatively sparse or represent single-center series rather than
prospective randomized trials. These conditions, however,
may still be associated with the development of cerebral
symptoms, particularly cerebrovascular accident (CVA)
and consequently warrant analysis and recommendation.46,229 For the most part, randomized controlled trials

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

have not been performed to examine these conditions that
occur infrequently, and consequently, Level I evidence is
often not available to guide physician practice. Nonetheless, the task force members determined that it was appropriate to make some recommendations in areas where they
could reach unanimous agreement. These recommendations should be taken as the best opinion of the task force
given current available data. As stated earlier, they may well
change in the future as therapy evolves and new data
emerge.
A. Acute neurologic syndromes
Acute neurologic syndromes can be divided in to several clinical categories: acute stroke, stroke in evolution,
and crescendo TIAs. The pathophysiology and concerns in
each category are somewhat different, as are the treatment
algorithms and outcomes.
Acute stroke is often associated with intracranial
thrombosis, although this is less common in patients with
the other two clinical presentations. As a consequence, a
major management goal is to identify those patients with
intracranial occlusion and to reperfuse the ischemic brain as
rapidly as possible. Therapy is primarily directed at the
intracranial occlusion. Although carotid bifurcation stenosis may be present, occlusion of the ICA in the neck is
unusual in patients who are candidates for intervention.
In contrast, patients with crescendo TIA, by definition,
have not had a significant volume of brain infarcted but do
have a significant amount of brain at risk from a very
unstable lesion with multiple small emboli or a large ischemic brain penumbra due to hemodynamic compromise
and poor cerebral autoregulation. In these cases attention is
directed at the source of symptoms, usually the carotid
bifurcation.
Patients with stroke in evolution occupy a middle
ground. Often there has been a permanent area of infarction, but the remaining ischemic penumbra is significant
and attention is directed at salvaging this ischemic area as
rapidly as possible.
In each of these clinical scenarios, expeditious clinical evaluation, brain imaging, and rapid evaluation of the
carotid bifurcation is important in optimizing results.
Brain imaging, most often by diffusion-weighted MRI,
allows a rapid assessment of the amount of brain infracted and the amount at risk, whereas CDUS imaging
can assess the status of the bifurcation. As will be discussed below, this information dictates the branch points
in treatment algorithms that follow. In general, patients
with preocclusive carotid stenosis or carotid occlusion
are considered for emergency intervention, whereas
those with lesser degrees of stenosis are initially managed
medically with urgent, but not emergency intervention,
according to the recommendations for symptomatic patients with carotid stenosis.
1. Management of acute stroke.
a. Presentation within 0-6 hours. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke trial established

Ricotta et al e19

the efficacy of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen
activator in the treatment of acute stroke, if therapy could
be initiated ⱕ3 hours of the onset of symptoms.230 Efficacy
has also been established for transarterial intracranial infusion.231 Factors that have been noted to influence results
include the extent of hemispheric involvement, time to the
initiation of therapy, time to reperfusion, age, blood glucose, and female sex.232-235 The most important of these
appear to be the degree of hemispheric involvement (⬎30%
by volume), time to reperfusion, and age. The more rapidly
intracranial reperfusion occurred, the better the neurologic
recovery, with minimal improvement seen if reperfusion
was not established before 6 hours.234 Thrombolysis may
be given by systemic (intravenous) or local (intracranial)
routes, and both routes are used in some cases to facilitate
rapid reperfusion.234
Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator
(r-tPA) has the advantage of rapid onset of administration
but the potential disadvantage of longer time to reperfusion. Administration of r-tPA into the intracranial thrombus requires assembling a neurointerventional team and
therefore takes longer to implement but is more efficacious
than systemic therapy alone. Data suggest that about 30%
of patients will show neurologic improvement with intravenous r-tPA235 and that recanalization will occur in ⬎50%
of patients ⱕ6 hours when systemic lysis is supplemented
by local intra-arterial infusion.234
Mechanical thrombectomy, ultrasound-facilitated lysis,
and clot fragmentation or extraction have all been proposed
as methods to accomplish rapid reperfusion without the
increased risk of hemorrhage associated with chemical
thrombolysis.236-238 Experience at this time is limited. The
role of extracranial intervention in the form of CAS or CEA
must be considered in the context of the treatment of
intracranial thrombosis or obstruction. Angioplasty and
stenting of the extracranial ICA may be performed as an
adjunct to intracranial therapy. Treatment of extracranial
disease offers the potential advantages of preventing further
embolization from the extracranial carotid atherosclerosis,
increasing perfusion to the ischemic penumbra surrounding the area of cerebral infarct, enhancing arterial flow to
augment clot-dissolution therapies, improve access for intervention on the intracranial lesions, and potentially improve the patency of the intracranial intervention. The use
of CAS as an adjunct to intracranial catheter-directed therapies has been evaluated in several case series.239 Although
the results initially reported have been favorable, the overall
experience has been limited.
b. Presentation later than 6 hours. Only about 15% of
acute stroke patients will present within the 6-hour time
window for acute intervention.240 Reasons for delay include failure to recognize symptoms, delay in seeking medical assistance, and a lack of nearby facilities capable of
emergency intervention. As a result, many patients present
outside this therapeutic window. Intervention in these
patients is directed at the carotid bifurcation, not the intracranial circulation, with the goal of preventing recurrent

e20 Ricotta et al

events rather than re-establishing intracranial flow in occluded arteries.
Patients with an acute fixed deficit of more than
6-hours’ duration and a mild or moderate deficit may be
considered for carotid intervention after a period of medical
stabilization. It is generally accepted that intervention is
safely performed early (ⱕ2 weeks) after the event and is
preferable to a delayed (4-6 weeks) intervention.241-244
Advances in radiographic imaging have made possible the
identification of a subset of patients who may benefit from
carotid bifurcation intervention in the setting of acute
stroke.245,246
Urgent CEA may be considered for patients in whom
the distal ICA as well as middle cerebral artery and other
intracranial vessels remain patent, who have limited areas of
infarct (⬍30% of hemispheric volume), with significant
areas of ischemic penumbra at risk for progression of the
infarct, have a mild to moderate neurologic deficit, and are
at risk for recurrent embolization and repeat stroke. Patients should be hemodynamically stable, with mild or
moderate functional deficit, relatively preserved mental status, and a favorable prognosis.247-252 Because these are
symptomatic patients, CEA would be recommended unless
the patients are at high risk for surgery due to medical
morbidity or anatomic features.
There are separate groups of patients in whom the
neurologic examination fluctuates under observation.
These patients can be classified as having unstable neurologic syndromes, a category that includes both stroke in
evolution and crescendo TIA. In these clinical syndromes,
urgent or emergent therapy is often considered to reverse
ischemia or salvage brain at risk.
2. Stroke in evolution (fluctuating neurologic deficits). This is a clinical syndrome that has been characterized by an evolving neurologic condition associated with an
acute precipitating neurologic event. In these situations,
the initial medical management of stroke, including antiplatelet agents, volume support, and blood pressure management, has not succeeded in stabilizing the patient’s
neurologic condition, which may “wax and wane” over the
early course of disease. Although patients may never return
to normal, their neurologic deficits will be mild to moderate in nature. These patients should have brain imaging to
exclude hemorrhage as an etiology and to identify ischemic
but viable brain. Carotid imaging by DUS, CTA, or MRA
should identify a tight lesion in the carotid bifurcation.
The presumption is that optimizing hemispheric blood
flow will improve perfusion to the ischemic hemisphere and
reduce the ultimate extent of neurologic deficit. This must
be balanced by concern that restoring blood flow may
result in hemorrhagic conversion of an infarction or a
reperfusion injury.
There are no large series of patients treated in a standard manner from which to draw definitive conclusions
regarding optimal therapy. In patients where hemorrhage
has been excluded by brain imaging, some surgeons use a
heparin infusion to try to stabilize these patients and prevent propagation of thrombus as part of their immediate

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

management. Only a few reports have included outcomes
of CEA in patients with stroke in evolution. In general the
stroke/death rates range from 9.2% to 26.2%.230,248,250-252
This reflects the heterogenous group of patients and lack of
standard selection criterion for intervention. There are no
data on unoperated-on controls for comparison. The lack
of high-quality data on the treatment of stroke in evolution
precludes any clear conclusions on the management of this
group of patients. There has not been a significant experience with CAS in these patients, distinct from what is
referenced above for acute stroke, to draw conclusions.
3. Crescendo TIA. This relatively rare clinical syndrome is characterized by repetitive episodes of transient
neurologic ischemia, followed by return to a normal neurologic status. The definition of “crescendo” varies, but
generally includes multiple repetitive events within a 24hour period that do not respond to antiplatelet therapy.
High-grade stenosis of the carotid bifurcation, often with
associated ulceration or thrombus, is a common finding.
Brain imaging does not reveal a significant area of infracted
brain, and there may or may not be a large ischemic
penumbra. Symptoms are thought to arise from an unstable
carotid plaque with recurrent emboli despite antiplatelet
therapy or from unstable cerebral hemodynamics associated with the bifurcation lesion.
Therapy in these patients is directed at removing the
causative lesion at the carotid bifurcation. Again, some
surgeons advocate heparin therapy in the immediate preoperative period if intracranial hemorrhage has been excluded, but this is based on personal experience rather than
reported data. Urgent CEA in these patients has been
associated with an increased risk of stroke compared with
“elective” interventions. Overall, however, the results of
surgery in patients with crescendo TIA are better than that
of stroke in evolution. Systematic reviews of the literature
for crescendo TIA report rates of stroke and death of 6.5%
(95% CI, 3.4%-10.4%) and stroke, MI, and death of 10.9%
(95% CI, 5.5%-17.9%). The comparable end points for
stroke in evolution include stroke and death rates of 16.9%
(95% CI, 9.2%-26.2%), and stroke, MI and death rates of
20.8% (95% CI, 13.2%-29.6%).252 Although there are no
data comparing CAS and CEA in these patients, the presumptive increase in embolic potential of these plaques
suggests that CEA would be preferred to CAS when the
former is feasible.
4. Acute postintervention stroke or occlusion. Patients who undergo carotid intervention may suffer stroke
in the early postintervention period. Treatment aims at
restoring intracranial blood flow to normal levels and depends on identifying the etiology of the stroke. In general, treatment decisions should be made as expeditiously
as possible. Stroke that occurs immediately after CEA is
considered secondary to a technical defect at the operative site, until proven otherwise. Other etiologies of
stroke in the immediate postoperative period include
embolization, intraoperative watershed infarction, and
intracranial hemorrhage.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

Of these four, early thrombosis at the endarterectomy
site is the most common.253 The status of the endarterectomy site should be determined. In most cases, this can be
done by emergency bedside ultrasound imaging. If thrombosis is confirmed, then operative exploration with repair
of the defect is indicated. Early re-exploration of an
occluded endarterectomy site with successful repair may
reduce long-term neurologic sequelae. Although there
are no control groups available for comparison, reexploration for symptomatic thrombosis has been associated with resolution of neurologic deficit in half to
three-quarters of patients.254-256
If imaging shows the endarterectomy site is patent,
other etiologies should be considered, specifically, distal
embolization or intracranial hemorrhage. Emergency head
CT to exclude hemorrhage is followed by anticoagulation
and angiography, with intracranial intervention according
to acute stroke guidelines. If capability for acute stroke
intervention is not available, then anticoagulation and
blood pressure support is indicated.
Acute stroke complicating CAS may result from embolization to the intracranial circulation during the procedure, occlusion of the angioplasty and stent site, or
intracranial hemorrhage. Because CAS procedures are performed on patients who are awake, ongoing neurologic
assessment is possible to guide evaluation and management. Management of acute, symptomatic intracranial embolization commonly reflects the current standard for intervention for acute stroke, as detailed in the previous
section. Management options, including catheter-directed
intra-arterial thrombolysis, clot dissolution or fragmentation with evacuation, and potentially, intracranial stenting,
may be used as appropriate.233,236-239,257 In selected cases,
perfusion imaging may also be of utility in determining
which patients will potentially benefit from intracranial
revascularization.245,246
Acute occlusion of the stent has rarely been reported. A
total of 10 cases of stent thrombosis have been reported,
with causes being attributed to the use of inappropriate,
balloon-expandable stents, inadequate antiplatelet or anticoagulation therapy, or plaque protrusion through the
stent or technical failure Options for management are
analogous to the techniques used for acute de novo occlusion of the internal carotid artery and include recanalization, intra-arterial thrombolysis, and management of the
underlying cause of the occlusion.
● Recommendations for management of acute neurologic syndromes
1. Patients who present ⱕ6 hours of the onset of stroke
should be considered for acute intervention to reduce
the ultimate neurologic deficit. Interventions may include local or systemic thrombolysis (GRADE 1, Level
of Evidence A). The role of endoluminal mechanical
lysis or extraction remains to be defined.
2. Patients who present with fixed neurologic deficit ⬎6hours’ duration should be considered for CEA once
their condition has been stabilized. CEA should be

Ricotta et al e21

performed ⱕ2 weeks of the neurologic event (GRADE
1, Level of Evidence B).
3. Patients who present with repetitive (crescendo) episodes of transient cerebral ischemia unresponsive to
antiplatelet therapy should be considered for urgent
CEA. The risk of intervention is increased over elective
surgery for neurologic symptoms, but not as much as for
patients with stroke in evolution. CEA is preferred to
CAS in these patients based on the presumptive increased embolic potential of bifurcation plaque in this
clinical situation (GRADE 1 Level of Evidence C).
4. For acute stroke after CEA, emergent imaging (ultrasound
or fast CTA) is indicated to evaluate the endarterectomy
site. When imaging suggests thrombosis, is indeterminate,
or not available, immediate operative re-exploration is
indicated (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence B).
5. When the endarterectomy site is patent, other modalities such as CT and angiography should be used to
better identify the cause of the stroke. If CT excludes
intracranial hemorrhage, anticoagulation is reasonable
until a definitive decision regarding the appropriate
diagnosis and therapy can be made (GRADE 2, Level of
Evidence C). The committee acknowledged the lack of
robust data in this small group of patients but was
unanimous in its endorsement of this recommendation
based on the data available and the low likelihood that
new data would emerge in the near future.
6. No firm recommendations can be made on treatment of
stent thrombosis associated with CAS. It is reasonable
to attempt to restore patency by use of chemical lysis or
clot extraction (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C). The
committee acknowledged the lack of robust data in this
small group of patients but was unanimous in its endorsement of this recommendation based on the data
available and the low likelihood that new data would
emerge in the near future.
B. ICA occlusion with persistent symptoms and
external carotid stenosis
Some patients with documented chronic occlusion of
the ICA may develop recurrent neurologic or ocular symptoms. Neurologic symptoms may be secondary to embolization from the distal aspect of the occluded ICA segment,
intrinsic disease of the external carotid artery, or from
embolization from the proximal aspect of the occluded
ICA. Ocular ischemia may arise from stenosis of the external carotid artery.258 These patients may be managed by
endarterectomy of the common and external carotid artery
with transection and flush ligation of the ICA to remove the
“stump” as a cause of the symptoms.259,260 Alternatively,
angioplasty and stenting of the external carotid artery has
been used to enhance cerebral perfusion in patients with
external carotid stenosis and occlusion of the ICA.261
Oral anticoagulation administration has been used in
the treatment of patients with a stroke associated with
chronic occlusion of the ICA. On meta-analysis, anticoagulation resulted in a significant reduction in the incidence

e22 Ricotta et al

of recurrent CVA. In contrast, aspirin administration did
not affect the recurrent stroke rate.262
● Recommendations for management of symptomatic ICA occlusion
1. Patients with known ICA occlusion and persistent ipsilateral neurologic symptoms can be treated by endarterectomy of the common and external carotid artery, with
transection and ligation of the ICA origin. The addition
of oral anticoagulation is likely to reduce the rate of
recurrent CVA (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence C).
C. Carotid dissection
Carotid dissection may occur spontaneously or result
from traumatic or iatrogenic injury. Historically, carotid dissection has been treated medically with antiplatelet agents or
anticoagulation. Intervention has largely been reserved for
patients with recurrent neurologic symptoms despite antithrombotic therapy, those who experience cerebral hypoperfusion due to hemodynamic effects of the dissection, or those
in whom antithrombotic therapy is contraindicated. Open
surgical therapy may be associated with significant rates of
perioperative CVA and cranial nerve injury. The largest case
series reported a 12.5% rate of combined recurrent stroke and
death and a 58% rate of cranial nerve injury.263
More recently, endovascular techniques, including stent
placement with or without adjunctive angioplasty, have been
evaluated. Relatively few reports have been published on a
small number of patients with dissection.264-266 These initial
results provide some encouragement, with the development
of new or progressive symptoms occurring infrequently. Endovascular therapies appear to provide significantly superior
results compared with open surgical approaches, with lower
stroke rates and no cranial nerve injuries.
A comprehensive literature review identified 62 patients treated by endovascular means. The technical success
rate reported was 100%, and the 1-year patency rate was
100%. The rate of recurrent CVA was 11% with no
deaths.264-266 No large series have been reported, and a
multicenter trial appears to be warranted. With these considerations, endovascular treatment of patients when medical management fails appears to be justified.
● Recommendations for management of carotid
dissection
1. Patients with carotid dissection should be initially
treated with antithrombotic therapy (antiplatelet agents
or anticoagulation) (GRADE 1, Level of Evidence C).
2. Patients who remain symptomatic on medical therapy
may be considered for intervention. Although data are
insufficient to make firm recommendations, the committee unanimously agreed that balloon angioplasty and
stenting is currently preferred over open surgery after
failed medical management (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence C).
D. Combined carotid and coronary disease
The incidence of concomitant carotid and coronary
atherosclerosis is significant. Patients who have coronary

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

disease amenable to percutaneous coronary intervention
should be treated in that manner, followed by treatment of
the carotid stenosis. The presence of carotid disease has
been associated with an increase in the incidence of CVA in
the perioperative period for cardiac surgery. The presence
of a bruit increases the risk of CVA to 1.6% to 5.5%, and the
presence of a carotid stenosis between 50% to 99% increases
the risk to 2.0% to 8.4%.38,46,267 Consequently, the management of concomitant carotid and coronary disease has
been the subject of considerable study.
For patients experiencing symptoms related to a carotid
stenosis (TIA, CVA), the risk of CVA associated with
cardiac surgery is increased to such a degree that concomitant management of the carotid disease is mandatory. Prior
CVA or TIA increases the risk of perioperative stroke to
2.2% to 8.5%. If bilateral 50% to 99% stenoses are present,
the risk of perioperative CVA increases to 5.2% (95% CI,
0%-10.8%). If carotid occlusion is present, the risk of perioperative CVA increases to 7% to 12% (95% CI, 2.1%21.2%).268-271 Alternative treatments, including combined
CEA and CABG, staged CEA and CABG, or CAS and
CABG have all been reported.
A review of the literature to date suggests that CEA,
followed by CABG, is associated with the lowest stroke
rate, whereas combined CEA and CABG carries a higher
mortality rate, and delayed CEA is associated with the
lowest mortality but the highest stroke rate. Most studies
are retrospective reviews, and there is no evidence that
patient groups are comparable. However, in a metaanalysis, Naylor et al269 found that the total stroke/MI/
death rate associated with any combination CEA and
CABG ranges from 9% to 12%.
In contrast to patients with neurologic symptoms
and those with severe bilateral carotid bifurcation stenosis, the management of patients requiring cardiac surgery
in whom unilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis has
been identified is not established. Documentation of a
increase in the perioperative stroke rate in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who have been identified as
having concomitant carotid disease has been well established for decades.272 An increase in the incidence of
CVA in the perioperative period for patients undergoing
cardiac surgery has been demonstrated for patients with
a carotid bruit, carotid stenosis ⬎50%, or a history of TIA
or CVA. Stenoses ⬍70% do not appear to be associated
with increased stroke.271,273
Unfortunately, the literature is not consistent with
regard to the degree of stenosis reported as “significant” or
the criteria for screening and quantifying stenosis. As a
result, accurate assessment of the stroke risk associated with
an asymptomatic stenosis in CABG patients is not possible
at this time. It remains uncertain if correction of carotid
disease before cardiac surgery is effective in lowering the
perioperative rate of CVA for those patients. Only two
randomized controlled trials have compared combined
CEA/CABG with a strategy of CABG first and delayed
CEA in patients with unilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Hertzer et al274 demonstrated reduced combined

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

stroke/death rates for combined CEA/CABG compared
to staged CEA (5.6% vs 17%). The stroke rate associated
with the “unprotected” CABG was 7.4%, compared to a
stroke rate of 2.8% with combined CEA/CABG. Recently,
Illuminati et al275 reported randomizing 185 patients with
unilateral severe (⬎80%) asymptomatic carotid stenosis, in
whom aortic arch disease had been excluded by preoperative CT scan, between “protected” CABG (15 CEA first,
79 combined CEA and CABG) and “unprotected” CABG
with CEA performed at a later time (within 3 months) (91
patients). There were no strokes in the “protected” group,
compared to 7 strokes (3 early, 4 later) in the “unprotected” group. All strokes were ipsilateral to the stenosis
and occurred before CEA was performed. These two reports suggest that patients with asymptomatic unilateral
severe stenosis may benefit from CEA before or with CABG
in centers with considerable experience. However, further
studies are required before a general recommendation can
be made. Other factors, including the specific nature of the
cardiac surgery being performed, length of cardiopulmonary bypass, and the status of the aortic arch, among a
variety of other risk factors, are important in determining
overall stroke risk after CABG.271,276 The best results,
stroke/death rates of 2.2%, have been reported for offpump CABG and synchronous CEA, although there is
likely a significant influence of patient selection in these
series.277 It is also possible that the presence of carotid
stenosis is a surrogate marker for stroke risk, rather than a
preventable, direct cause (as evidenced by patients with
unilateral carotid occlusion who exhibit the highest perioperative rates of CVA).269
In summary, significant indirect evidence suggests that
treatment of neurologically symptomatic carotid stenosis or
patients with bilateral asymptomatic severe disease may
reduce the incidence of perioperative CVA in patients
undergoing cardiac surgery. The data on treatment of
unilateral asymptomatic stenosis ⬎70% suggest CEA before or in combination with CABG is reasonable in centers
of excellence but the data at this point are insufficient to
make a firm recommendation. Local results are critical in
determining appropriate therapy.
When coronary intervention can be performed percutaneously, this should precede carotid intervention.
Data indicating trends toward improved outcomes for
simultaneous performance of the surgical procedures at
institutions that manage these conditions regularly are
not sufficiently robust to support a definitive recommendation. More recently, some studies suggested a potential role for CAS before CABG, with a trend toward
decreased stroke rates in the patients treated with
CAS.278,279 A review of the Nationwide Inpatient Sample found the risk of perioperative stroke was 62% higher
for combined CEA and CABG (3.9%) compared with
combined CAS and CABG (2.4%), with an OR of 1.62
(95% CI, 1.1-2.5).278
If a sequential strategy is planned, CABG may need to
be deferred for 2 to 4 weeks because of the need for
dual-antiplatelet therapy after CAS. This has resulted in

Ricotta et al e23

some logistical difficulties in patients who require urgent
coronary revascularization. A meta-analysis of all published
results280 suggested that the stroke/death rate of 9.1% seen
with CAS and CABG is not significantly different than the
results with CEA and CABG. One must conclude that data
are insufficient to support a clear recommendation for
treating patients with unilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis who need CABG.
● Recommendations for management of combined
carotid and coronary disease
1. Patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis will benefit
from CEA before or concomitant with CABG. The
timing of the intervention depends on clinical presentation and institutional experience (GRADE 1, Level of
Evidence B).
2. Patients with severe bilateral asymptomatic carotid stenosis, including stenosis and contralateral occlusion,
should be considered for CEA before or concomitant
with CABG (GRADE 2, Level of Evidence B).
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: JR, AA, EA, ME, PF, BL
Analysis and interpretation: JR, AA, EA, ME, PF, BL
Data collection: JR, AA, EA, ME, PF, BL
Writing the article: JR, AA, EA, ME, PF, BL
Critical revision of the article: JR, AA, EA, ME, PF, BL
Final approval of the article: JR, AA, EA, ME, PF, BL
Statistical analysis: JR, AA, EA, ME, PF, BL
Obtained funding: Not applicable.
Overall responsibility: JR
REFERENCES
1. Fields WS, North RR, Hass WK, Kircheff II, Chase NE, Bauer RB, et
al. Joint study of extracranial arterial occlusion as a cause of Stroke. I.
Organization of study and survey of patient population. JAMA 1968;
203:955-60.
2. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators (NASCET). Beneficial effect of carotid endarterectomy in
symptomatic patients with high-grade carotid stenosis. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators N Engl
J Med 1991;325:445.
3. Barnett HJ, Taylor DW, Eliasziw M, Fox AJ, Ferguson GG, Haynes
RB, et al. Benefit of carotid endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic moderate or severe stenosis. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators. N Engl J Med 1998;339:
1415-25.
4. Randomised trial of endarterectomy for recently symptomatic carotid
stenosis: final results of the MRC European Carotid Surgery Trial
(ECST). Lancet 1998;351:1379-87.
5. Endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Executive
Committee for the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study.
JAMA 1995;273:1421-8.
6. Halliday A, Mansfield A, Marro J, Peto C, Peto R, Potter J, et al.
Prevention of disabling and fatal strokes by successful carotid endarterectomy in patients without recent neurological symptoms: randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2004;363:1491-502.
7. Eslami MH, McPhee JT, Simons JP, Schanzer A, Messina LM. National trends in utilization and postprocedure outcomes for carotid
revascularization 2005 to 2007. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:307-15.
8. Cowan JA, Dimick JB, Thompson BC, Stanley JA, Upchurch GR.
Surgeon volume as an indicator of outcomes after carotid endarterectomy: an effect independent of specialty practice and hospital volume.
JACS 2002;195:814-21.

e24 Ricotta et al

9. Brott TG, Hobson RW, 2nd, Howard G, Roubin GS, Clark WM,
Brooks W, et al. Stenting versus endarterectomy for treatment of
carotid-artery stenosis. N Engl J Med 2010;363:11-23.
10. International Carotid Stenting Study investigators, Ederle J, Dobson
J, Featherstone RL, Bonati LH, van der Worp HB, et al. Carotid artery
stenting compared with endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic
carotid stenosis (International Carotid Stenting Study): an interim
analysis of a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2010;375:985-97.
11. Murad MH, Shahrour A, Shah ND, Montori VM, Ricotta JJ. A
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials of carotid
endarterectomy vs stenting. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:792-97.
12. Hobson RW 2nd, Mackey WC, Ascher E, Murad MH, Calligaro KD,
Comerota AJ, et al. Management of atherosclerotic carotid artery
disease: clinical practice guidelines of the Society for Vascular Surgery.
J Vasc Surg 2008;48:480-6.
13. Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, Bacharach JM, Barr JD, Bush RL, et
al. 2011 ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/
SAIP/SCAI/SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS Guideline on the Management
of Patients With Extracranial Carotid and Vertebral Artery Disease A
Report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American
Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and the American Stroke Association, American Association of Neuroscience Nurses,
American Association of Neurological Surgeons, American College of
Radiology, American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Society of Atherosclerosis Imaging and Prevention,
Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society of
Interventional Radiology, Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery,
Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for Vascular Surgery Developed in Collaboration With the American Academy of Neurology
and Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography. J Am Coll
Cardiol 2011;57:e16-e94.
14. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for Vascular
Surgery including the experience with the GRADE framework. J Vasc
Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
15. Warlow CP, Dennis MS, van Gijn J. What caused the transient or
persisting ischaemic event, In Warlow CP, et al, editors. Stroke a
practical guide to management. Oxford, Engle: Blackwell Science;
2001. p. 223-300.
16. Chambers BR, Donnan GA. Carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2005;4:CD001923.
17. Abbott AL, Bladin CF, Levi CR, Chambers BR. What should we do
with asymptomatic carotid stenosis? Int J Stroke 2007;2:27-39.
18. Hankey GJ. Impact of treatment of people with transient ischemic
attacks on stroke incidence and public health. Cerebrovasc Dis 1996;
6(suppl 1):26-33.
19. Chaturvedi S, Bruno A, Feasby T, Holloway R, Benavente O, Cohen
SN, et al. Carotid Endarterectomy – an evidence based review: report
of the Therapeutics and Technology Subcommittee of the American
Academy of Neurology. Neurology 2005;65:794-801.
20. Benavente O, Eliasziw M, Streifler JY, Fox AJ, Barnett HJ, Meldrum
H, et al. Prognosis after transient monocular blindness associated with
carotid-artery stenosis. N Engl J Med 2001;345:1084-90.
21. Qureshi AI, Alexandrov AV, Tegeler CH, Hobson RW 2nd, Dennis
Baker J, Hopkins LN, et al. Guidelines for screening of extracranial
carotid artery disease: a statement for healthcare professionals from the
multidisciplinary practice guidelines committee of the American Society of Neuroimaging: cosponsored by the Society of Vascular and
Interventional Neurology. J Neuroimaging 2007;17:19-47.
22. Gorelick PB, Sacco RL, Smith DB, Alberts M, Mustone-Alexander L,
Rader D, et al. Prevention of a first stroke: a review of guidelines and a
multidisciplinary consensus statement from the National Stroke Association. JAMA 1999;281:1112-20.
23. Perry JR, Szalai JP, Norris JW. Consensus against both endarterectomy and routine screening for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis.
Canadian Stroke Consortium. Arch Neurol 1997;54:25-8.
24. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for carotid artery
stenosis: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2007;147:854-9.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

25. Goldstein LB, Adams R, Alberts MJ, Appel LJ, Brass LM, Bushnell
CD, et al. Primary prevention of ischemic stroke: a guideline from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association Stroke
Council: cosponsored by the Atherosclerotic Peripheral Vascular Disease Interdisciplinary Working Group; Cardiovascular Nursing Council; Clinical Cardiology Council; Nutrition, Physical Activity, and
Metabolism Council; and the Quality of Care and Outcomes Research
Interdisciplinary Working Group: the American Academy of Neurology affirms the value of this guideline. Stroke 2006;37:1583-633.
26. Bates ER, Babb JD, Casey DE Jr, Cates CU, Duckwiler GR, Feldman
TE, et al. ACCF/SCAI/SVMB/SIR/ASITN 2007 clinical expert
consensus document on carotid stenting: a report of the American
College of Cardiology Foundation Task Force on Clinical Expert
Consensus Documents (ACCF/SCAI/SVMB/SIR/ASITN Clinical
Expert Consensus Document Committee on Carotid stenting). J Am
Coll Cardiol 2007;49:126-70.
27. Zhu CZ, Norris JW. Role of carotid stenosis in ischemic stroke. Stroke
1990;21:1131-4.
28. Sauvé JS, Thorpe KE, Sackett DL, Taylor W, Barnett HJ, Haynes RB,
et al. Can bruits distinguish high-grade from moderate symptomatic
carotid stenosis? The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial. Ann Intern Med 1994;120:633.
29. Ratchford EV, Jin Z, Di Tullio MR, Salameh MJ, Homma S, Gan R,
et al. Carotid bruit for the detection of hemodynamically significant
carotid stenosis: the Northern Manhattan Study. Neurol Res 2009;31:
748-52.
30. Heyman A, Wilkinson WE, Heyden S, Helms MJ, Bartel AG, Karp
HR, et al. Risk of stroke in asymptomatic persons with cervical arterial
bruits: a population study in Evans County, Georgia. N Engl J Med
1980;302:383.
31. Wiebers DO, Whisnant JP, Sandok BA, O’Fallon WM. Prospective
comparison of a cohort with asymptomatic carotid bruit and a population-based cohort without carotid bruit. Stroke 1990;21:984-8.
32. Shorr RI, Johnson KC, Wan JY, Sutton-Tyrrell K, Pahor M, Bailey JE,
et al. The prognostic significance of asymptomatic carotid bruits in the
elderly. J Gen Intern Med 1998;13:86.
33. Pickett CI, Jackson JL, Hemann BA, Atwood E. Carotid bruits as a
prognostic indicator of cardiovascular death and myocardial infarction:
a meta-analysis. Lancet 2008;371:1587-94.
34. Benavente O, Moher D, Pham B. Carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis: a meta-analysis. BMJ 1998;317:1477.
35. Jacobowitz GR, Rockman CB, Gagne PJ, Adelman MA, Lamparello
PJ, Landis R, et al. A model for predicting occult carotid artery
stenosis: screening is justified in a selected population. J Vasc Surg
2003;38:705-9.
36. Qureshi AI, Janardhan V, Bennett SE, Luft AR, Hopkins LN, Guterman LR. Who should be screened for asymptomatic carotid artery
stenosis? Experience from the Western New York stroke screening
program. J Neuroimaging 2001;11:105-11.
37. Ascher E, Hingorani A, Yorkovich W, Ramsey PJ, Salles-Cunha S.
Routine preoperative carotid duplex scanning in patients undergoing
open heart surgery: is it worthwhile? Ann Vasc Surg 2001;15:669-78.
38. Naylor AR, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM, Bell PR. Carotid artery disease
and stroke after coronary artery bypass: a critical review of the literature. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Sur 2002;23:283-94.
39. D’Agostino RS, Svensson LG, Neumann DJ, Balkhy HH, Williamson
WA, Shahian DM. Screening carotid ultrasonography and risk factors
for stroke in coronary artery surgery patients. Ann Thorac Surg 1996;
62:1714-23.
40. Fukuda I, Ohuchi H, Sato M, Sato F, Wada M. Carotid screening with
duplex scanning before coronary artery bypass. Nippon Kyobu Geka
Gakkai Zasshi 1996;44:478-83.
41. Hill AB. Should patients be screened for asymptomatic carotid artery
stenosis? Can J Surg 1998;41:208-13.
42. Ascher E, DePippo P, Salles-Cunha S, Marchese J, Yorkovich W.
Carotid screening with duplex ultrasound in elderly asymptomatic
patients referred to a vascular surgeon: is it worthwhile? Ann Vasc Surg
1999;13:164-8.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

43. Hill AB, Obrand D, Steinmetz OK. The utility of selective screening
for carotid stenosis in cardiac surgery patients. J Cardiovasc Surg
[Torino] 1999;40:829-36.
44. Durand DJ, Perler BA, Roseborough GS, Grega MA, Borowicz LM Jr,
Baumgartner WA, et al. Mandatory versus selective preoperative carotid screening: a retrospective analysis. Ann Thorac Surg 2004;
78:159-66.
45. Tanimoto S, Ikari Y, Tanabe K, Yachi S, Nakajima H, Nakayama T, et
al. Prevalence of carotid artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery
disease in Japanese population. Stroke 2005;36:2094-8.
46. Eagle KA, Guyton RA, Davidoff R, Edwards FH, Ewy GA, Gardner
TJ, et al. ACC/AHA 2004 guideline update for coronary artery bypass
graft surgery: summary article: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines (committee to update the 1999 guidelines for coronary
artery bypass graft surgery). Circulation 2004;110:1168-76.
47. Marek J, Mills JL, Harvich J, Cui H, Fujitani RM. Utility of routine
carotid duplex screening in patients who have claudication. J Vasc Surg
1996;24:572-7.
48. Alexandrova NA, Gibson WC, Norris JW, Maggisano R. Carotid
artery stenosis in peripheral vascular disease. J Vasc Surg 1996;23:
645-9.
49. Valentine RJ, Hagino RT, Boyd PI, Kakish HB, Clagett GP. Utility of
carotid duplex in young adults with lower extremity atherosclerosis:
how aggressive should we be in screening young patients? Cardiovasc
Surg 1997;5:408-13.
50. Cheng SW, Wu LL, Ting AC, Lau H, Wong J. Screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in patients with peripheral vascular disease: a
prospective study and risk factor analysis. Cardiovasc Surg 1999;7:
303-9.
51. House AK, Bell R, House J, Mastaglia F, Kumar A, D’Antuono M.
Asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis associated with peripheral vascular disease: a prospective study. Cardiovasc Surg 1999;7:44-9.
52. Deville C, Kerdi S, Madonna F, de la Renaudière DF, Labrousse L.
Infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm repair: detection and treatment
of associated carotid and coronary lesions. Ann Vasc Surg 1997;11:
467-72.
53. Cahan MA, Killewich LA, Kolodner L, Powell CC, Metz M, Sawyer R,
et al. The prevalence of carotid artery stenosis in patients undergoing
aortic reconstruction. Am J Surg 1999;178:194-6.
54. Axelrod DA, Diwan A, Stanley JC, Jacobs LA, Henke PK, Greenfield
LJ, et al. Cost of routine screening for carotid and lower extremity
occlusive disease in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms. J Vasc
Surg 2002;35:754-8.
55. Cheng SW, Wu LL, Ting AC, Lau H, Lam LK, Wei WI. Irradiationinduced extracranial carotid stenosis in patients with head and neck
malignancies. Am J Surg 1999;178:323-8.
56. Moritz MW, Higgins RF, Jacobs JR. Duplex imaging and incidence of
carotid radiation injury after high-dose radiotherapy for tumors of the
head and neck. Arch Surg 1990;125:1181-3.
57. Dubec JJ, Munk PL, Tsang V, Lee MJ, Janzen DL, Buckley J, et al.
Carotid artery stenosis in patients who have undergone radiation
therapy for head and neck malignancy. Br J Radiol 1998;71:872-5.
58. Carmody BJ, Arora S, Avena R, Curry KM, Simpkins J, Cosby K, et al.
Accelerated carotid artery disease after high-dose head and neck radiotherapy: is there a role for routine carotid duplex surveillance? J Vasc
Surg 1999;30:1045-51.
59. Steele SR, Martin MJ, Mullenix PS, Crawford JV, Cuadrado DS,
Andersen CA. Focused high-risk population screening for carotid
arterial stenosis after radiation therapy for head and neck cancer. Am J
Surg 2004;187:594-8.
60. Kakkos SK, Sabetai M, Tegos T, Stevens J, Thomas D, Griffin M, et al.
Silent embolic infarcts on computed tomography brain scans and risk
of ipsilateral hemispheric events in patients with asymptomatic internal
carotid artery stenosis. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:902-9.
61. Risk of stroke in the distribution of an asymptomatic carotid artery.
The European Carotid Surgery Trialists Collaborative Group. Lancet
1995;345:209.

Ricotta et al e25

62. Ricotta JJ, Schenck EA, Hassett JM, Deweese JA. Lesion Width as a
Discriminator of Plaque Characteristics. J Cardiovasc Surg 1996;4:
124-9.
63. Reilly LM, Lusby RJ, Hughes L, Ferrell LD, Stoney RJ, Ehrenfeld
WK. Carotid plaque histology using real-time ultrasonography. Clinical and therapeutic implications. Am J Surg 1983;146:188-93.
64. AbuRahma AF, Wulu JT, Crotty B. Carotid plaque ultrasonic heterogeneity and severity of stenosis. Stroke 2002;33:1772-5.
65. Nicolaides AN. Asymptomatic carotid stenosis and risk of stroke:
identification of a high risk group (ACRS): a natural history study. Int
Angio 1995;14:21-3.
66. Biasi GM, Froio A, Diethrich EB, Deleo G, Galimberti S, Mingazzini
P, et al. Carotid plaque echolucency increases the risk of stroke in
carotid stenting: the Imaging in Carotid Angioplasty and Risk of
Stroke (ICAROS) Study. Circulation 2004;110:756-62.
67. Nicolaides AN, Kakkos SK, Griffin M, Sabetai M, Dhanjil S, Thomas
DJ, et al. Effect of image normalization on carotid plaque classification
and the risk of ipsilateral hemispheric ischemic events: results from the
asymptomatic carotid stenosis and risk of stroke study. Vascular 2005;
13:211-21.
68. Grant EG, Benson CB, Moneta GL, Alexandrov AV, Baker JD, Bluth
EI, et al. Carotid artery stenosis: grayscale and Doppler ultrasound
diagnosis – Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound Consensus Conference. Ultrasound Q 2003;19:190-8.
69. AbuRahma AF, Srivastava M, Stone PA, Mousa AY, Jain A, Dean LS,
et al. Critical appraisal of the carotid duplex consensus criteria in the
diagnosis of carotid artery stenosis. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:53-60.
70. Comerota AJ, Salles-Cunha SX, Daoud Y, Jones L, Beebe HG. Gender
differences in blood velocities across carotid stenoses. J Vasc Surg
2004;40:939-44.
71. Busuttil SJ, Franklin DP, Youkey JR, Elmore JR. Carotid duplex
overestimation of stenosis due to severe contralateral disease. Am J
Surg 1996;172:144-7.
72. Lal BK, Hobson RW, Tofghi B, Kapadia I, Cuadra S, Jamil Z. Duplex
ultrasound velocity criteria for the stented carotid artery. J Vasc Surg
2008;47:63-73.
73. Sitzer M, Rose G, Fürst G, Siebler M, Steinmetz H. Characteristics
and clinical value of an intravenous echo-enhancement agent in evaluation of high-grade internal carotid stenosis. J Neuroimaging 1997;
7(suppl 1):S22-5.
74. Ferrer JM, Samsó JJ, Serrando JR, Valenzuela VF, Montoya SB,
Docampo MM. Use of ultrasound contrast in the diagnosis of carotid
artery occlusion. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:736-41.
75. Bude RO, Rubin JM, Adler RS. Power versus conventional color
Doppler sonography: comparison in the depiction of normal intrarenal
vasculature. Radiology 1994;192:777-80.
76. Nederkoom PJ, van der Graaf Y, Hunink MG. Duplex ultrasound and
magnetic resonance angiography compared with digital subtraction
angiography in carotid artery stenosis: a systematic review. Stroke
2003;34:1324-32.
77. Remonda L, Senn P, Barth A, Arnold M, Lövblad KO, Schroth G.
Contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiography of the carotid artery: comparison with conventional digital subtraction angiography. AJNR
Am J Neuroradiol 2002;23:213-9.
78. Yuan C, Mitsumori LM, Ferguson MS, Polissar NL, Echelard D, Ortiz
G, et al. In vivo accuracy of multispectral magnetic resonance imaging
for identifying lipid-rich necrotic cores and intraplaque hemorrhage in
advanced human carotid plaques. Circulation 2001;104:2051-6.
79. Hatsukami TS, Ross R, Polissar NL, Yuan C. Visualization of fibrous
cap thickness and rupture in human atherosclerotic carotid plaque in
vivo with high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging. Circulation
2000;102:959-64.
80. Bartlett ES, Walters TD, Symons SP, Fox AJ. Quantification of carotid
stenosis on CT angiography. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2006;27:13.
81. Koelemay MJ, Nederkoorn PJ, Reitsma JB, Majoie CB. Systematic
review of computed tomographic angiography for assessment of carotid artery disease. Stroke 2004;35:2306-12.
82. Grønholdt ML. B-mode ultrasound and spiral CT for the assessment
of carotid atherosclerosis. Neuroimaging Clin N Am 2002;12:421-35.

e26 Ricotta et al

83. Hankey GJ, Warlow CP, Molyneux AJ. Complications of cerebral
angiography for patients with mild carotid territory ischaemia being
considered for carotid endarterectomy. J Neurol Neurosurg, Psychiatry 1990;53:542-8.
84. Davies KN, Humphrey PR. Complications of cerebral angiography in
patients with symptomatic carotid territory ischaemia screened by
carotid ultrasound. J Neurol Neurosurg, Psychiatry 1993;56:967-72.
85. Leonardi M, Cenni P, Simonetti L, Raffi L, Battaglia S. Retrospective
study of complications arising during cerebral and spinal diagnostic
angiography from 1998 to 2003. Intervent Neuroradiol 2005;11:
213-21.
86. Wardlaw JM, Chappell FM, Stevenson M, De Nigris E, Thomas S,
Gillard J, et al. Accurate, practical and cost-effective assessment of
carotid stenosis in the UK. Health Technol Assess 2006;10:iii-iv, ix-x,
1-182.
87. Sadideen H, Taylor PR, Padayachee TS. Restenosis after carotid
endarterectomy. Int J Clincal Pract 2006;60:1265-30.
88. Moore WS, Kempczinski RF, Nelson JJ, Toole JF. Recurrent carotid
stenosis: results of the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study.
Stroke 1998;29:2018-25.
89. Cao P, Giordano G, De Rango P, Zannetti S, Chiesa R, Coppi G, et al.
Eversion versus conventional carotid endarterectomy: late results of a
prospective multicenter randomized trial. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:19-30.
90. Sundt TM Jr, Whisnant JP, Houser OW, Fode NC. Prospective study
of the effectiveness and durability of carotid endarterectomy. Mayo
Clin Proc 1990;65:625-35.
91. Raman KG, Layne S, Makaroun MS, Kelley ME, Rhee RY, Tzeng E, et
al. Disease progression in contralateral carotid artery is common after
endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:52-7.
92. Martin-Conejero A, Reina-Gutierrez T, Serrano-Hernando FJ,
Sanchez-Hervas L, Blanco-Cañibano E, Ponce-Cano AI, et al. Disease
progression in the contralateral carotid artery after endarterectomy.
Ann Vasc Surg 2005;19:662-8.
93. AbuRahma AF, Robinson PA, Mullins DA, Holt SM, Herzog TA,
Mowery NT. Frequency of postoperative carotid duplex surveillance
and type of closure: results from randomized trial. J Vasc Surg 2000;
32:1043-51.
94. Yadav JS, Wholey MH, Kuntz RE, Fayad P, Katzen BT, Mishkel GJ, et
al. Protected carotid-artery stenting versus endarterectomy in highrisk patients. N Engl J Med 2004;351:1493-501.
95. Chakhtoura EY, Hobson RW 2nd, Goldstein J, Simonian GT, Lal BK,
Haser PB, et al. In-stent restenosis after carotid angioplasty-stenting:
incidence and management. J Vasc Surg 2001;33:220-5.
96. Roubin GS, New G, Iyer SS, Vitek JJ, Al-Mubarak N, Liu MW, et al.
Immediate and late clinical outcomes of carotid artery stenting in
patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: a
5-year prospective analysis. Circulation 2001;103:532-7.
97. Wholey MH, Al-Mubarek N, Wholey MH. Updated review of the
global carotid artery stent registry. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2003;
60:259-66.
98. McCabe DJ, Pereira AC, Clifton A, Bland JM, Brown MM,
CAVATAS Investigators. Restenosis after carotid angioplasty, stenting, or endarterectomy in the carotid and vertebral artery transluminal
angioplasty study (CAVATAS). Stroke 2005;36:281-6.
99. AbuRahma AF, Abu-Halimah S, Bensenhaver J, Dean LS, Keiffer T,
Emmett M, et al. Optimal carotid duplex velocity criteria for defining
the severity of carotid in-stent restenosis. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:589-94.
100. Sacco RL, Adams R, Albers G, Alberts MJ, Benavente O, Furie K, et al.
Guidelines for prevention of stroke in patients with ischemic stroke or
transient ischemic attack: a statement for healthcare professionals from
the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association Council on Stroke: co-sponsored by the Council on Cardiovascular Radiology and Intervention: the American Academy of Neurology affirms
the value of this guideline. Stroke 2006;37:577-617.
101. Rodgers A, MacMahon S, Gamble G, Slattery J, Sandercock P, Warlow C. Blood pressure and risk of stroke in patients with cerebrovascular disease. The United Kingdom Transient Ischaemic Attack Collaborative Group. BMJ 1996;313:147.
102. Lawes CM, Bennett DA, Feigin VL, Rodgers A. Blood pressure and
stroke: an overview of published reviews. Stroke 2004;35:1024.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

103. Chobanian AV, Bakris GL, Black HR, Cushman WC, Green LA, Izzo
JL Jr, et al. The Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on
Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood
Pressure: the JNC 7 report. JAMA 2003;289:2560-72.
104. Wilson PW, Hoeg JM, D’Agostino RB, Silbershatz H, Belanger AM,
Poehlmann H, et al. Cumulative effects of high cholesterol levels, high
blood pressure, and cigarette smoking on carotid stenosis. N Engl
J Med 1997;337:516-22.
105. Heiss G, Sharrett AR, Barnes R, Chambless LE, Szklo M, Alzola C.
Carotid atherosclerosis measured by B-mode ultrasound in populations: associations with cardiovascular risk factors in the ARIC study.
Am J Epidemiol 1991;134:250-6.
106. Howard G, Manolio TA, Burke GL, Wolfson SK, O’Leary DH. Does
the association of risk factors and atherosclerosis change with age? An
analysis of the combined ARIC and CHS cohorts. The Atherosclerosis
Risk in Communities (ARIC) and Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS)
investigators. Stroke 1997;28:1693-701.
107. Smith NL, Barzilay JI, Shaffer D, Savage PJ, Heckbert SR, Kuller LH,
et al. Fasting and 2-hour postchallenge serum glucose measures and
risk of incident cardiovascular events in the elderly: the Cardiovascular
Health Study.. Arch Intern Med 2002;162:209-16.
108. Wagenknecht LE, D’Agostino R Jr, Savage PJ, O’Leary DH, Saad
MF, Haffner SM. Duration of diabetes and carotid wall thickness. The
Insulin Resistance Atherosclerosis Study (IRAS). Stroke 1997;28:
999-1005.
109. Dobs AS, Nieto FJ, Szklo M, Barnes R, Sharrett AR, Ko WJ. Risk
factors for popliteal and carotid wall thicknesses in the Atherosclerosis
Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study. Am J Epidemiol 1999;150:
1055-67.
110. Laakso M. Benefits of strict glucose and blood pressure control in type
2 diabetes: lessons from the UK Prospective Diabetes Study. Circulation 1999;99:461-2.
111. Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes Study Group,
Gerstein HC, Miller ME, Byington RP, Goff DC Jr, Bigger JT, et al.
Effects of intensive glucose lowering in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med
2008;358:2545-59.
112. The ADVANCE Collaborative Group, Patel A, MacMahon S, Chalmers J, Neal B, Billot L, Woodward M, et al. Intensive blood glucose
control and vascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl
J Med 2008;358:2560-72.
113. Effect of simvastatin on coronary atheroma: the Multicentre AntiAtheroma Study (MAAS). Lancet 1994;344:633-8.
114. Iso H, Jacobs DR Jr, Wentworth D, Neaton JD, Cohen JD. Serum
cholesterol levels and six-year mortality from stroke in 350,977 men
screened for the multiple risk factor intervention trial. N Engl J Med
1989;320:904-10.
115. Bots ML, Elwood PC, Nikitin Y, Salonen JT, Freire de Concalves A,
Inzitari D, et al. Total and HDL cholesterol and risk of stroke.
EUROSTROKE: a collaborative study among research centres in
Europe. J Epidemiol Comm Health 2002;56(suppl 1):i19-24.
116. Horenstein RB, Smith DE, Mosca L. Cholesterol predicts stroke
mortality in the women’s Pooling Project. Stroke 2002;33:1863-8.
117. Baigent C, Keech A, Kearney PM, Blackwell L, Buck G, Pollicino C, et
al. Efficacy and safety of cholesterol-lowering treatment: prospective
meta-analysis of data from 90,056 participants in 14 randomised trials
of statins. Lancet 2005;366:1267-78.
118. Bucher HC, Griffith LE, Guyatt GH. Effect of HMGCoA Reductase
Inhibitors on stroke. A meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials.
Ann Intern Med 1998;128:89-95.
119. Amarenco P, Goldstein LB, Szarek M, Sillesen H, Rudolph AE,
Callahan A 3rd, et al. Effects of intense low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reduction in patients with stroke or transient ischemic attack:
the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in cholesterol Levels
(SPARCL) trial. Stroke 2007;38:3198-204.
120. Crouse JR 3rd, Grobbee DE, O’Leary DH, Bots ML, Evans GW,
Palmer MK, et al. Measuring Effects on intima media Thickness: an
Evaluation Of Rosuvastatin in subclinical atherosclerosis–the rationale
and methodology of the METEOR study.. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther
2004;18:231-8.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

121. Taylor AJ, Kent SM, Flaherty PJ, Coyle LC, Markwood TT, Vernalis
MN. ARBITER: Arterial Biology for the Investigation of the Treatment Effects of Reducing cholesterol: a randomized trial comparing
the effects of atorvastatin and pravastatin on carotid intima medial
thickness. Circulation 2002;106:2055-60.
122. Smilde TJ, van Wissen S, Wollersheim H, Trip MD, Kastelein JJ,
Stalenhoef AF. Effect of aggressive versus conventional lipid lowering
on atherosclerosis progression in familial hypercholesterolemia
(ASAP): a prospective, randomised, double-blind trial. Lancet 2001;
357:577-81.
123. National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Expert Panel on
Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in
Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III). Third Report of the National
Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Expert Panel on Detection,
Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood cholesterol in Adults (Adult
Treatment Panel III) final report. Circulation 2002;106:3143-421.
124. van den Bogaard B, van den Born BJ, Fayyad R, Waters DD, DeMicco
DA, LaRosa JC, et al. On-treatment lipoprotein components and risk
of cerebrovascular events in the Treating to New Targets study. Eur
J Clin Invest 2011;41:134-42.
125. Avellone G, Di Garbo V, Guarnotta V, Scaglione R, Parrinello G,
Purpura L, et al. Efficacy and safety of long-term ezetimibe/simvastatin treatment in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. Int Angiol 2010;29:514-24.
126. Shinton R, Beevers G. Meta-analysis of relation between cigarette
smoking and stroke. BMJ 1989;298:789-94.
127. Wolf PA, D’Agostino RB, Kannel WB, Bonita R, Belanger AJ. Cigarette smoking as a risk factor for stroke. The Framingham study. JAMA
1988;259:1025-9.
128. Gordon T, Kannel WB, McGee D, Dawber TR. Death and coronary
attacks in men after giving up cigarette smoking. A report from the
Framingham Study. Lancet 1974;2:1345-8.
129. Kawachi I, Colditz GA, Stampfer MJ, Willett WC, Manson JE, Rosner
B, et al. Smoking cessation and decreased risk of stroke in women.
JAMA 1993;269:232-6.
130. Wannamethee SG, Shaper AG, Whincup PH, Walker M. Smoking
cessation and the risk of stroke in middle-aged men. JAMA 1995;274:
155-60.
131. Fiore MC, Bailey WC, Cohen SJ, et al. Smoking cessation. Clinical
Practice Guideline No. Rockville, MD: Department of Health and
Human Services, Public Health Service, Agency for Health Care
Policy and Research; 1996, p. 18. AHCPR Publication 96-0692.
132. Frank E, Winkleby MA, Altman DG, Rockhill B, Fortmann SP.
Predictors of physician’s smoking cessation advice. JAMA 1991;266:
3139-44.
133. Fiore MC, Smith SS, Jorenby DE, Baker TB. The effectiveness of the
nicotine patch for smoking cessation. A meta-analysis. JAMA 1994;
271:1940-7.
134. Wolff T, Miller T, Ko S. Aspirin for the primary prevention of
cardiovascular events: an update of the evidence for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med 2009;150:405-10.
135. Pearson TA, Blair SN, Daniels SR, Eckel RH, Fair JM, Fortmann SP,
et al. AHA Guidelines for Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke: 2002 Update: Consensus Panel Guide to Comprehensive Risk Reduction for Adult Patients without Coronary or
other atherosclerotic Vascular Diseases. American Heart Association
Science Advisory and Coordinating Committee. Circulation 2002;
106:388-91.
136. Antithrombotic Trialists’ Collaboration. Collaborative meta-analysis
of randomised trials of antiplatelet therapy for prevention of death,
myocardial infarction, and stroke in high risk patients. BMJ 2002;324:
71-86.
137. Albers GW, Amarenco P, Easton JD, Sacco RL, Teal P, et al. Antithrombotic and thrombolytic therapy for ischemic stroke: American
College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines (8th Edition). Chest 2008;33(6 suppl):630-69S.
138. Wolf PA, Clagett GP, Easton JD, Goldstein LB, Gorelick PB, KellyHayes M, et al. Preventing ischemic stroke in patients with prior stroke
and transient ischemic attack: a statement for healthcare professionals

Ricotta et al e27

from the Stroke Council of the American Heart Association. Stroke
1999;30:1991-4.
139. Johnston SC, Nguyen-Huynh MN, Schwarz ME, Fuller K, Williams
CE, Josephson SA, et al. National Stroke Association guidelines for the
management of transient ischemic attacks. Ann Neurol 2006;60:30113.
140. Fox KA, Mehta SR, Peters R, Zhao F, Lakkis N, Gersh BJ, et al.
Benefits and risks of the combination of clopidogrel and aspirin in
patients undergoing surgical revascularization for non-ST segment
elevation acute coronary syndrome: the clopidogrel in Unstable angina to prevent Recurrent ischemic Events (CURE) trial. Circulation
2004;110:1202-08.
141. Steinhubl SR, Berger PB, Mann JT 3rd, Fry ET, DeLago A, Wilmer C,
et al. Early and sustained dual oral antiplatelet therapy following
percutaneous coronary intervention: a randomized controlled trial.
JAMA 2002;288:2411-20.
142. Diener HC, Bogousslavsky J, Brass LM, Cimminiello C, Csiba L,
Kaste M, et al. Aspirin and clopidogrel compared with clopidogrel
alone after recent ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack in
high-risk patients (MATCH): randomised, double-blind, placebocontrolled trial. Lancet 2004;364:331-7.
143. CAPRIE Steering Committee. A randomised, blinded, trial of clopidogrel versus aspirin in patients at risk of ischaemic events (CAPRIE).
Lancet 1996;348:1329-39.
144. Bhatt DL, Fox KA, Hacke W, Berger PB, Black HR, Boden WE, et al.
Clopidogrel and aspirin versus aspirin alone for the prevention of
atherothrombotic events. N Engl J Med 2006;354:1706-17.
145. Alberts MJ, Bergman DL, Molner E, Jovanovic BD, Ushiwata I,
Teruya J. Antiplatelet effect of aspirin in patients with with cerebrovascular disease. Stroke 2004;35:175-8.
146. Kasotakis G, Pipinos II, Lynch TG. Current evidence and clinical
implications of aspirin resistance. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:1500-10.
147. Mega JL, Close SL, Wiviott SD, Shen L, Hockett RD, Brandt JT, et al.
Cytochrome p-450 polymorphisms in response to clopidogrel. N Engl
J Med 2009;360:354-62.
148. Wiviott SD, Braunwald E, McCabe CH, Montalescot G, Ruzyllo W,
Gottlieb S, et al. Prasugrel versus clopidogrel in patients with acute
coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med 2007;357:2001-15.
149. De Miguel A, Ibanez B, Badimón JJ. Clinical implications of clopidogrel resistance. Thromb Haemost 2008;100:196-203.
150. Mohr JP, Thompson JL, Lazar RM, Levin B, Sacco RL, Furie KL, et
al. A comparison of warfarin and aspirin for the prevention of recurrent
ischemic stroke. N Engl J Med 2001;345:1444-51.
151. ESPRIT Study Group, Halkes PH, van Gijn J, Kappelle LJ, Koudstaal
PJ, Algra A. Medium intensity anticoagulation vs. aspirin after cerebral
ischemia or arterial origin (ESPRIT): a randomized controlled trial.
Lancet Neurol 2007;6:6115-24.
152. Nair A, Sealove B, Halperin JL, Webber G, Fuster V. Anticoagulation
in patients with heart failure: who, when, and why? Eur Heart J Suppl
2006;8(suppl E):E32-8.
153. Fleisher LA, Beckman JA, Brown KA, Calkins H, Chaikof EL, Fleischmann KE, et al. ACC/AHA 2007 Guidelines on Perioperative cardiovascular Evaluation and care for Noncardiac Surgery: a Report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Revise the 2002
Guidelines on Perioperative cardiovascular Evaluation for Noncardiac
Surgery) Developed in Collaboration with the American Society of
Echocardiography, American Society of Nuclear Cardiology, Heart
Rhythm Society, Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists, Society
for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society for Vascular Medicine and Biology, and Society for Vascular Surgery. J Am Coll
Cardiol 2007;50:e159-242.
154. American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines; American Society of Echocardiography; American Society of Nuclear Cardiology; Heart
Rhythm Society; Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists; Society
for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, et al. 2009
ACCF/AHA focused update on perioperative beta blockade incorporated into the ACC/AHA 2007 guidelines on perioperative cardio-

e28 Ricotta et al

vascular evaluation and care for noncardiac surgery. J Am Coll Cardiol
2009;54:e13-118.
155. Eikelboom JW, Hirsh J. Bleeding and management of bleeding. Eur
Heart J Suppl 2006;8 (suppl G):G38-45.
156. Merritt JC, Bhatt DL. The efficacy and safety of perioperative antiplatelet therapy. J Thromb Thrombolysis 2004;17:21-7.
157. Stone DH, Goodney PP, Schanzer A, Nolan BW, Adams JE, Powell
RJ, et al. Clopidogrel is not associated with major bleeding complications during peripheral arterial surgery. J Vasc Surg 2011[E-pub ahead
of print: doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2011.03.003].
158. Taylor DW, Barnett HJ, Haynes RB, Ferguson GG, Sackett DL,
Thorpe KE, et al. Low-dose and high-dose acetylsalicylic acid for
patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy: a randomised controlled
trial. ASA and Carotid Endarterectomy (ACE) Trial Collaborators.
Lancet 1999;353:2179-84.
159. Hindler K, Shaw AD, Samuels J, Fulton S, Collard CD, Riedel B.
Improved postoperative outcomes associated with preoperative statin
therapy. Anesthesiology 2006;105:1260-72; Quiz:1289-90.
160. Durazzo AE, Machado FS, Ikeoka DT, De Bernoche C, Monachini
MC, Puech-Leão P, et al. Reduction in cardiovascular events after
vascular surgery with atorvastatin: a randomized trial. J Vasc Surg
2004;39:967-75; discussion: 975-66.
161. Lindenauer PK, Pekow P, Wang K, Gutierrez B, Benjamin EM.
Lipid-lowering therapy and in-hospital mortality following major noncardiac surgery. JAMA 2004;291:2092-9.
162. Mas JL, Chatellier G, Beyssen B, Branchereau A, Moulin T, Becquemin JP, et al. Endarterectomy versus stenting in patients with symptomatic severe carotid stenosis. N Engl J Med 2006;355:1660-71.
163. Massop D, Dave R, Metzger C, Bachinsky W, Solis M, Shah R, et al.
Stenting and angioplasty with protection in patients at high-risk for
endarterectomy: SAPPHIRE Worldwide Registry first 2,001 patients.
Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2009;73:129-36.
164. Momin TA, Ricotta JJ. Minimizing the Complications of Carotid
Endarterectomy. Persp Vasc Sur Endovasc Ther 2010;22:106-13.
165. Parodi FE, Schonholz C, Parodi JC. Minimizing Complications of
Carotid stenting. Persp Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther 2010;22:117-22.
166. GALA Trial Collaborative Group, Lewis SC, Warlow CP, Bodenham
AR, Colam B, Rothwell PM, et al. General anaesthesia versus local
anaesthesia for carotid surgery (GALA): a multicentre, randomized
controlled trial. Lancet 2008;372:2132-42.
167. Rerkasem K, Rothwell PM (The Cochrane Collaboration). Local
versus general anesthesia for carotid endarterectomy (Review). The
Cochrane Library 2009;1:1-84.
168. Ballotta E, Saladini M, Gruppo M, Mazzalai F, Da Giau G, Baracchini
C. Predictors of electroencephalographic changes needing shunting
during carotid endarterectomy. Ann Vasc Surg 2010;24:1045-52.
169. Skelly CL, Meyerson SL, Curi MA, Desai TR, Bassiouny HS,
McKinsey JF, et al. Routine early postoperative duplex scanning is
unnecessary following uncomplicated carotid endarterectomy. Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2002;36:115-22.
170. Bond R, Rerkasem K, Counsell C, Salinas R, Naylor R, Warlow CP, et
al. Routine or selective carotid artery shunting for carotid endarterectomy (and different methods of monitoring in selective shunting).
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2002;2:CD000190.
171. Bandyk DF, Mills JL, Gahtan V, Esses GE. Intraoperative Duplex
scanning of arterial reconstructions: fate of repaired and unrepaired
defects. J Vasc Surg 1994;20:426-33.
172. Ascher E, Markevich N, Kallakuri S, Schutzer RW, Hingorani AP.
Intraoperative carotid artery duplex scanning in a modern series of 650
consecutive primary endarterectomy procedures. J Vasc Surg 2004;
39:416-20.
173. Burnett MG, Stein SC, Sonnad SS, Zager EL. Cost-effectiveness of
intraoperative imaging in carotid endarterectomy. Neurosurgery
2005;57:478-85.
174. O’Brien-Irr RJ. Completion angiography, is it really necessary? Am J
Surg 1997;174:181-4.
175. Rockman CB, Halm EA. Intraoperative imaging: does it really improve perioperative outcomes of carotid endarterectomy? Semin Vasc
Surg 2007;20:236-43.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

176. Chiriano J, Abou-Zamzam AM Jr, Molkara NK, Zhang WW, Bianchi
C, Teruya TH. Preoperative carotid duplex findings predict carotid
stump pressures during endarterectomy in symptomatic but not
asymptomatic patients. Ann Vasc Surg 2010;24:1038-44.
177. Bond R, Rerkasem K, Naylor AR, Aburahma AF, Rothwell PM.
Systematic Review of randomized controlled trials of patch angioplasty
versus primary closure and different types of patch materials during
carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:1126-35.
178. Cao P, De Rango P, Zannetti S. Eversion vs. conventional carotid
endarterectomy: a systematic review. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;
23:195-201.
179. Darling RC 3rd, Mehta M, Roddy SP, Paty PS, Kreienberg PB,
Ozsvath KJ, et al. Eversion carotid endarterectomy: a technical alternative that may obviate patch closure in women. Cadiovsc Surg
2003;11:347-52.
180. Matsen SL, Chang DC, Perler BA, Roseborough GS, Williams GM.
Trends in the in-hospital stroke rate following carotid endarterectomy
in California and Maryland. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:488-95.
181. AbuRahma AF, Robinson P. Indications and complications of carotid
endarterectomy as performed by four different surgical specialty
groups. J Cardiovasc Surg 1988;29:277-82.
182. Garg N, Karagiorgos N, Pisimisis GT, Sohal DP, Longo GM, Johanning JM, et al. Cerebral protection devices reduce periprocedural
strokes during carotid angioplasty and stenting: a systematic review of
the current literature. J Endovasc Ther 2009;16:412-27.
183. Vos JA, van den Berg JC, Ernst SM, Suttorp MJ, Overtoom TT,
Mauser HW, et al. Carotid angioplasty and stent placement: comparison of transcranial Doppler US data and clinical outcome with and
without filtering cerebral protection devices in 509 patients. Radiology 2005;237:374-75.
184. Parodi JC, Schönholz C, Parodi FE, Sicard G, Ferreira LM. Initial 200
cases of carotid artery stenting using a reversal of flow cerebral protection device. J Cardiovasc Surg 2007;48:117-24.
185. Schnaudigel S, Gröschel K, Pilgram SM, Kastrup A. New brain lesions
after carotid stenting versus carotid endarterectomy: a systematic
review of the literature. Stroke 2008;39:1911-9.
186. Ansel GM, Hopkins LN, Jaff MR, Rubino P, Bacharach JM, Scheinert
D, Myla S, et al. Safety and efficacy of the INVATEC MOMA proximal
cerebral protection device during carotid artery stenting: results form
the ARMOUR pivotal trial. Catheter Cadiovasc Interv 2010;76:1-8.
187. Hart JP, Peeters P, Verbist J, Deloose K, Bosiers M. Do device
characteristics impact outcome in carotid artery stenting?. J Vasc Surg
2006;44:725-30.
188. Hopkins LN, Roubin GS, Chakhtoura EY, Gray WA, Ferguson RD,
Katzen BT, et al. The Carotid revascularization Endarterectomy versus
stenting trial: credentialing of interventionalists and final results of the
lead-in phase. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis 2010;19:153-62.
189. Hobson RW 2nd, Howard VJ, Roubin GS, Ferguson RD, Brott TG,
Howard G, et al. Credentialing of Surgeons as interventionalists for
carotid artery stenting: experience from the lead-in phase of CREST. J
Vasc Surg 2004;40:952-7.
190. Verzini F, De Rango P, Parlani G, Panuccio G, Cao P. Carotid artery
stenting: technical issues and role of operator’s experience. Perspect
Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther 2008;20:247-57.
191. Lin PH, Bush RL, Peden EK, Zhou W, Guerrero M, Henao EA, et al.
Carotid artery stenting with neuroprotection: assessing the learning
curve and treatment outcome. Am J Surg 2005;190:850-57.
192. Ricotta JJ 2nd, Malgor RD. A review of the trials comparing carotid
endarterectomy and carotid angioplasty and stenting. Perspect Vasc
Surg Endovasc Ther 2008;20:299-308.
193. Mozes G, Sullivan TM, Torres-Russotto DR, Bower TC, Hoskin TL,
Sampaio SM, et al. Carotid endarterectomy in SAPPHIRE-eligible
high-risk patients: implications for selecting patients for carotid angioplasty and stenting. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:958-65.
194. Gasparis AP, Ricotta L, Cuadra SA, Char DJ, Purtill WA, van Bemmelen PS, et al. High-risk carotid endarterectomy (CEA): facts or
fiction. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:40-6.
195. Simonian GT, Pappas PJ, Padberg FT Jr, Samit A, Silva MB Jr, Jamil
Z, et al. Mandibular subluxation for distal internal carotid exposure:
technical considerations. J Vasc Surg 1999;30:1116-20.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

196. Jaspers GW, Witjes MJ, van den Dungen JJ, Reintsema H, Zeebregts
CJ. Mandibular subluxation for distal internal carotid artery exposure
in edentulous patients. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:1519-22.
197. Setacci C, Chisci E, Setacci F, Iacoponi F, de Donato G, Rossi A. Siena
carotid artery stenting score: a risk modeling study for individual
patients. Stroke 2010;41:1259-65.
198. AbuRahma AF, Abu-Halimah S, Bensenhaver J, Nanjundappa A,
Stone PA, Dean LS, et al. Primary carotid artery stenting versus carotid
artery stenting for postcarotid endarterectomy stenosis. J Vasc Surg
2009;50:1031-9.
199. White RA, Sicard GA, Zwolak RM, Sidawy AN, Schermerhorn ML,
Shackelton RJ, et al. Society of Vascular Surgery vascular registry
comparison of carotid artery stenting outcomes for atherosclerotic
vs nonatherosclerotic carotid artery disease. J Vasc Surg 2010;51:
1116-23.
200. Lam RC, Lin SC, DeRubertis B, Hynecek R, Kent KC, Faries PL. The
impact of increasing age on anatomic factors affecting carotid angioplasty and stenting. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:875-80.
201. Kang JL, Chung TK, Lancaster RT, Lamuraglia GM, Conrad MF,
Cambria RP. Outcomes after carotid endarterectomy: is there a highrisk population? A National Surgical Quality Improvement Program
report. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:331-9.
202. Bangalore S, Kumar S, Wetterslev J, Bavry AA, Gluud C, Cutlip DE, et
al. Carotid artery stenting vs carotid endarterectomy: meta-analysis
and diversity-adjusted trial sequential analysis of randomized trials.
Arch Neurol 2011;68:172-84.
203. Saw J, Gurm HS, Fathi RB, Bhatt DL, Abou-Chebl A, Bajzer C, et al.
Effect of chronic kidney disease on outcomes after carotid artery
stenting. Am J Cardiol 2005;94:1093-6.
204. Jackson BM, English SJ, Fairman RM, Karmacharya J, Carpenter JP,
Woo EY. Carotid artery stenting: identification of risk factors for poor
outcomes. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:74-9.
205. Hamdan AD, Pomposelli FB, Gibbons GW, Campbell DR, LoGerfo
FW. Renal insufficiency and altered postoperative risk in carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 1999;29:1006-11.
206. Ascher E, Marks NA, Schutzer RW, HIngorani AP. Carotid endarterectomy in patients with chronic renal insufficiency: a recent series of
184 cases. J Vasc Surg 2005;41:24-9.
207. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial. Methods, patient characteristics, and progress. Stroke 1991;22:711-20.
208. Maatz W, Köhler J, Botsios S, John V, Walterbusch G. Risk of stroke
for carotid endarterectomy patients with contralateral carotid occlusion. Ann Vasc Surg 2008;22:45-51.
209. Rockman CB, Su W, Lamparello PJ, Adelman MA, Jacobowitz GR,
Gagne PJ, et al. A reassessment of carotid endarterectomy in the face of
contralateral carotid occlusion: surgical results in symptomatic and
asymptomatic patients. J Vasc Surg 2002;36:668-73.
210. Mackey WC, O’Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD. Carotid Endarterectomy
contralateral to an occluded carotid artery: perioperative risk and late
results. J Vasc Surg 1990;11:778-83.
211. Halliday A, Harrison M, Hayter E, Kong X, Mansfield A, Marro J, et
al. 10-year stroke prevention after successful carotid endarterectomy
for asymptomatic carotid stenosis (ACST-1): a multicentre randomised trial. Lancet 2010;376:1074-84.
212. Schneider PA, Naylor AR. Asymptomatic Carotid artery stenosis–
medical therapy alone versus medical therapy plus carotid endarterectomy or stenting. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:499-507.
213. Marquardt L, Geraghty OC, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM. Low risk of
ipsilateral stroke in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis on best
medical treatment: a prospective, population-based study. Stroke
2010;41:e11-7.
214. Reiff T, Stingele R, Eckstein HH, Fraedrich G, Jansen O, Mudra H, et
al. Stent-protected angioplasty in asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis
vs. endarterectomy: SPACE2 - a three-arm randomised-controlled
clinical trial.. Int J Stroke 2009;4:294-9.
215. Bunch CT, Kresowik TF, Can randomized trial outcomes for carotid
endarterectomy be achieved in community-wide practice? Semin Vasc
Surg 2004;17:209-13.

Ricotta et al e29

216. Gray WA, Hopkins LN, Yadav S, Davis T, Wholey M, Atkinson R, et
al. Protected carotid stenting in high-risk surgical patients: the
ARCHeR results. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:258-68.
217. Gray WA, Gray WA, Chaturvedi S, Verta P; Investigators and the
Executive Committees. Thirty-day outcomes for carotid artery stenting in 6320 patients from 2 prospective, multicenter, high-surgicalrisk registries. Circ Cardiovasc Interv 2009;2:159-66.
218. Zarins CK, White RA, Dietrich EB, Shackelton RJ, Siami FS, CaRESS
Steering Committee and CaRESS Investigators. CaRESS Steering
committee and CaRESS Investigators. Carotid revascularization using
endarterectomy or stenting systems (CaRESS): 4-year outcomes. J
Endovasc Ther 2009;16:397-409.
219. Higashida RT, Popma JJ, Apruzzese P, Zimetbaum P, MAVErIC I
and II Investigators. Evaluation of the Medtronic exponent selfexpanding carotid stent system with the Medtronic guardwire temporary occlusion and aspiration system in the treatment of carotid stenosis; combined form the MAVErIC (Medtronic AVE Self-expanding
CaRotid Stent System with distal protection In the treatment of
Carotid stenosis) I and MAVErIC II trials. Stroke 2010;41:e102-9.
220. CAVATAS Investigators. Endovascular versus surgical treatment in
patients with carotid stenosis in the Carotid and Vertebral Artery
Transluminal Angioplasty Study (CAVATAS): a randomised trial.
Lancet 2001;357:1729-37.
221. Brooks WH, McClure RR, Jones MR, Coleman TC. Carotid angioplasty and stenting versus carotid endarterectomy: randomized trial in
a community hospital. J Am Coll Cardiol 2001;38:1589-95.
222. CaRESS Steering Committee. Carotid revascularization Using Endarterectomy or stenting Systems (CaRESS) phase I clinical trial: 1-year
results. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:213-9.
223. Naylor AR, Bell PR. Treatment of asymptomatic carotid disease with
stenting: con. Semin Vasc Surg 2008;21:100-7.
224. LoGerfo FW. Carotid stents: unleashed, unproven. Circulation 2007;
116:1596-601.
225. Lal BK, Moore W, Timaran C, Jamil Z, Meschia-Thomas JF, Brott G.
CEA Shows Improved Results in CREST when Compared to Previous
Randomized Trials. Presented at The Vascular Annual Meeting: Boston, Mass; 2010.
226. Sidawy AN, Zwolak RM, White RA, Siami FS, Schermerhorn ML,
Sicard GA, et al. Outcomes Committee for the Society for Vascular
Surgery. Risk-adjusted 30-day outcomes of carotid stenting and endarterectomy: results from the SVS Vascular Registry. J Vasc Surg
2009;49:71-9.
227. Rudarakachana N, Dialynas M, Halliday A. Asymptomatic Carotid
Surgery Trial. 2 (ACST-2): rationale for a randomized clinical trial
comparing carotid endarterectomy with carotid artery stenting in
patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2009;38:239-42.
228. SPACE Collaborative Group, Ringleb PA, Allenberg J, Brückmann H,
Eckstein HH, Fraedrich G et al. 30 Day results from the SPACE trial
of stent-rotected angioplasty versus carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients: a randomisd non-inferiority trial. Lancet 2006;368:
1239-47.
229. Liapis CD, Bell PRF, Mikhailidis D, Sivenius J, Nicolaides A, Fernandes e Fernandes J, et al. ESVS guidelines. Invasive treatment for
carotid stenosis: indications, techniques. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2009;37:S1-S19.
230. Tissue plasminogen activator for acute ischemic stroke. The National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. Rt-TPA Stroke Study
Group. N Engl J Med 1995;333:1581-87.
231. Furlan A, Higashida R, Wechsler L, Gent M, Rowley H, Kase C, et al.
Intra-arterial prourokinase for acute ischemic stroke. The PROACT II
study: a randomized controlled trial. Prolyse in Acute Cerebral
Thromboembolism. JAMA 1999;282:2003-11.
232. Suh DC, Kim JK, Choi CG, Kim SJ, Pyun HW, Ahn C, et al.
Prognostic factors for neurologic outcome after endovascular revascularization of acute symptomatic occlusion of the internal carotid artery.
AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2007;28:1167-71.
233. Hacke W, Donnan G, Fieschi C, Kaste M, von Kummer R, Broderick
JP, et al. Association of outcome with early stroke treatment: pooled

e30 Ricotta et al

analysis of Atlantis, ECASS, and NINDS Rt-PA stroke trials. Lancet
2004;363:768-74.
234. Khatri P, Abruzzo T, Yeatts SD, Nichols C, Broderick JP, Tomsick
TA, et al. Good clinical outcome after ischemic stroke with successful
revascularization is time dependent. Neurology 2009;73:1066-72.
235. Saposnik G, DiLegge S, Webster F, Hachinski V. Predictors of major
neurologic improvement after thrombolysis in acute stroke. Neurology 2005;65:1165-74.
236. Josephson SA, Saver JL, Smith WS. MERCI and Multi MERCI
Investigators. Comparison of mechanical embolectomy and intraarterial thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke within the MCA: MERCI
and Multi MERCI compared to PROACT II. Neurocrit Care 2009;
II:10: 43-9.
237. Sugg RM, Malkoff MD, Noser EA, Sugg RM, Malkoff MD, Noser EA
et al. Endovascular recanalization of internal carotid artery occlusion in
acute ischemic stroke. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2005;26:2591-4.
238. Smith WS. Safety of mechanical thrombectomy and intravenous tissue
plasminogen activator in acute ischemic stroke. Results of the multi
Mechanical Embolus Removal in Cerebral Ischemia (MERCI) trial,
part I. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2006;27:1177-82.
239. Nedeltchev K, Brekenfeld C, Remonda L, Ozdoba C, Do DD, Arnold
M, et al. Internal carotid artery stent implantation in 25 patients with
acute stroke: preliminary results. Radiology 2005;237:1029-37.
240. Cloft HJ, Rabinstein A, Lanzino G, Kallmes DF. Intra-arterial stroke
therapy: an assessment of demand and available work-force. AJNR
Am J Neuroradiol 2009;30:453-8.
241. Keldahl ML, Eskandari MK. Timing of carotid surgery after stroke.
Expert Rev Cadiovsc Ther 2010;8:1399-403.
242. Baron EM, Baty DE, Loftus IM. The timing of carotid endarterectomy post stroke. Neurol Clin 2006;24:669-80.
243. Rantner B, Pavelka M, Posch L, Schmidauer C, Fraedrich G. Carotid
Endarterectomy after acute stroke-is there justification for delayed
surgery? Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;30:36-40.
244. Meyer FB, Sundt TM Jr, Piepgras DG, Sandok BA, Forbes G. Emergency carotid endarterectomy for patients with acute carotid occlusion
and profound neurological deficits. Ann Surg 1986;203:82-9.
245. Barber PA, Darby DG, Desmond PM, Yang Q, Gerraty RP, Jolley D,
et al. Prediction of stroke outcome with echoplanar perfusion- and
diffusion-weighted MRI. Neurology 1998;51:418-26.
246. Wintermark M, Meuli R, Browaeys P, Reichhart M, Bogousslavsky J,
Schnyder P, et al. Comparison of CT perfusion and angiography and
MRI in selecting stroke patients for acute treatment. Neurology
2007;68:694-7.
247. Mussa FF, Aaronson N, Lamparello PJ, Maldonado TS, Cayne NS,
Adelman MA, et al. Outcome of carotid endarterectomy for acute
neurological deficit. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;43:364-9.
248. Baracchini C, Meneghetti G, Ballotta E. Early Carotid endarterectomy
in acute stroke. Cerebrovasc Dis 2005;19:417-8.
249. Paty PS, Darling RC 3rd, Feustel PJ, Bernardini GL, Mehta M,
Ozsvath KJ, et al. Early carotid endarterectomy after acute stroke. J
Vasc Surg 2004;39:148-54.
250. Capoccia L, Sbarigia E, Speziale F, Toni D, Fiorani P. Urgent Carotid
Endarterectomy to prevent recurrence and improve neurologic outcome in mild-to-moderate acute neurologic events. J Vasc Surg 2011;
53:622-2.
251. Sbarigia E, Toni D, Speziale F, Acconcia MC, Fiorani P. Early carotid
endarterectomy after ischemic stroke: the results of a prospective
multicenter Italian study. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2006;32:229-35.
252. Karkos CD, Hernandez-Lahoz I, Naylor AR. Urgent carotid surgery
in patients with crescendo transient ischaemic attacks and stroke-inevolution: a systematic review. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;37:
279-88.
253. Greenstein AJ, Chassin MR, Wang J, Rockman CB, Riles TS, Tuhrim
S, et al. Association between minor and major surgical complications
after carotid endarterectomy: results of the New York Carotid Artery
Surgery study. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:1138-44.
254. Rockman CB, Jacobowitz GR, Lamparello PJ, Adelman MA, Woo D,
Schanzer A, et al. Immediate reexploration for the perioperative
neurologic event after carotid endarterectomy: is it worthwhile? J Vasc
Surg 2000;32:1062-70.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
September 2011

255. Koslow AS, Ricotta JJ, Ouriel KO, O’Brien M, Green RM, DeWeese
JA. Reexploration for thrombosis in carotid endarterectomy. Circulation 1989;80:1173-8.
256. Peer RM, Shah RM, Upson JF, Ricotta JJ. Carotid exploration for
acute postoperative thrombosis. Am J Surg 1994;168:168-70.
257. Roth C, Papanagiotou P, Behnke S, Walter S, Haass A, Becker C, et al.
Stent-assisted mechanical recanalization for treatment of acute intracerebral artery occlusions. Stroke 2010;41:2559-67.
258. Street DL, Ricotta JJ, Green RM, DeWeese JA. The role of external
carotid revascularization in the treatment of ocular ischemia. J Vasc
Surg 1987;6:280-2.
259. Harris LM, Pillai L, Ricotta JJ. External carotid endarterectomy with
internal carotid artery transposition flap angioplasty for symptomatic
internal carotid artery occlusion. Cardiovasc Surg 1995;3:625-9.
260. Nicolosi A, Klinger D, Bandyk D, Towne J. External carotid artery
endarterectomy in the treatment of symptomatic patients with internal
carotid artery occlusion. Ann Vasc Surg 1998;2:336-9.
261. Adel JG, Bendok BR, Hage ZA, Naidech AM, Miller JW, Batjer HH.
External carotid artery angioplasty and stenting to augment cerebral
perfusion in the setting of subacute symptomatic ipsilateral internal carotid artery occlusion. Case report. J Neurosurg 2007;107:
1217-22.
262. Klijn CJ, Kappelle LJ, Algra A, van Gijn J. Outcome in patients
with symptomatic occlusion of the internal carotid artery or intracranial arterial lesions: a meta-analysis of the role of baseline
characteristics and type of antithrombotic treatment. Cerebrovasc
Dis 2001;12:228-34.
263. Müller BT, Luther B, Hort W, Neumann-Haefelin T, Aulich A,
Sandmann W. Surgical treatment of 50 carotid dissections: indications
and results. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:980-8.
264. Donas KP, Mayer D, Guber I, Baumgartner R, Genoni M, Lachat M.
Endovascular repair of extracranial carotid artery dissection: current
status and level of evidence. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2008;19:1693-8.
265. Pham MH, Rahme RJ, Arnaout O, Hurley MC, Bernstein RA, Batjer
HH, et al. Endovascular stenting of extracranial carotid and vertebral
artery dissections: a systematic review of the literature. Neurosurgery
2011;68:856-66.
266. Anson J, Crowell RM. Cervicocranial arterial dissection. Neurosurgery
1991;29:89-96.
267. Li Y, Walicki D, Mathiesen C, Jenny D, Li Q, Isayev Y, et al. Strokes
after cardiac surgery and relationship to carotid stenosis. Arch Neurol
2009;66:1091-6.
268. Naylor AR. Managing patients with symptomatic coronary and carotid
artery disease. Perspect Vasc Surg 2010;22:70-6.
269. Naylor AR, Cuffe RL, Rothwell PM, Bell PR. A systematic review of
outcomes following staged and synchronous carotid endarterectomy
and coronary artery bypass. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2003;25:380-9.
270. Bucerius J, Gummert JF, Borger MA, Walther T, Doll N, Onnasch JF,
et al. Stroke after cardiac surgery: a risk factor analysis of 16,184
consecutive adult patients. Ann Thorac Surg 2003;75:472-8.
271. Newman MF, Wolman R, Kanchuger M, Marschall K, MoraMangano C, Roach G, et al. Multicenter pre-operative stroke risk
index for patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery:
multicenter study of perioperative ischemia (mMcSPI) research group.
Circulation 1996;94(9 suppl):1174-80.
272. Bernhard VM, Johnson WD, Peterson JJ. Carotid artery stenosis:
association with surgery for coronary artery disease. Arch Surg 1972;
105:837-40.
273. Cywinski JB, Koch CG, Krajewski LP, Smedira N, Li L, Starr NJ.
Increased risk associated with combined carotid endarterectomy and
coronary artery bypass graft surgery: a propensity-matched comparison with isolated coronary artery bypass graft surgery. J Cardiothorac
Vasc Anesth 2006;20:796-802.
274. Ricotta JJ, Char DJ, Cuadra SA, Bilfinger TV, Wall LP, Giron F, et al.
Modelling stroke risk after coronary artery bypass and combined coronary
artery bypass and carotid endarterectomy. Stroke 2003;34:1212-7.
275. Hertzer NR, Loop FD, Been EG, O’Hara PJ, Krajewski LP. Surgical
staging for simultaneous coronary and carotid disease: a study including prospective randomization. J Vasc Surg 1989;9:455-63.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 54, Number 3

276. Illuminati G, Ricco JB. Randomized controlled trial examining the
timing of carotid endarterectomy in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting [Abstract]. J
Vasc Surg 2011;53:101S.
277. Fareed KR, Rothwell PM, Mehta Z, Naylor AR. Synchronous carotid
endarterectomy and off-pump coronary bypass: an updated systematic
review of early outcomes. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;37:375-8.
278. Timaran CH, Rosero EB, Smith St, Valentine RJ, Modrall JG, Clagett
GP. Trends and outcomes of concurrent carotid revascularization and
coronary bypass. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:355-61.

Ricotta et al e31

279. Van der Heyden J, Suttorp MJ, Bal ET, Ernst JM, Ackerstaff RG, Schaap
J, et al. Staged carotid angioplasty and stenting followed by cardiac
surgery in patients with severe asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: early
and long-term results. Circulation 2007;116:2036-42.
280. Naylor AR, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM. A systematic review and metaanalysis of 30-day outcomes following staged carotid artery stenting and
coronary bypass. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;37:379-87.

Submitted Jun 20, 2011; accepted Jul 12, 2011.

Update
Journal of Vascular Surgery
Volume 55, Issue 3, March 2012, Page 894
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.015

CORRECTION
Riccota JJ, AbuRahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P, Lal BK. Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines
for management of extracranial carotid disease. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:e1-31. The following corrections are needed for
this article:
In the abstract on page e1, the following text needs to be removed: “In contrast to the multispecialty guidelines
recently published,” The corrected sentence should read, “The committee recommends CEA as the first-line
treatment for most symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic patients with stenosis of 60%
to 99%.”
On page e2, the following sentences need to be removed: “As with most multispecialty documents, however, the
conclusions drawn do not necessarily represent the unanimous opinion of the participating organizations. Although
the Society for Vascular Surgery supported this multispecialty effort, there were significant concerns about how some
of the presented data were analyzed and the recommendations that followed from this analysis. In particular, there
was concern about how the results of the two recent randomized trials9,10 were interpreted and the relative weight
given to these results in developing final guidelines regarding carotid interventions.”

CORRECTION
Riccota JJ, AbuRahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P, Lal BK. Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines
for management of extracranial carotid disease: Executive summary. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:832-6. The following
corrections are needed for this article:
In the abstract on page 832, the following text needs to be removed: “In contrast to the multispecialty guidelines
recently published,”. The corrected sentence should read, “The committee recommends CEA as the first-line
treatment for most symptomatic patients with stenosis of 50% to 99% and asymptomatic patients with stenosis of 60%
to 99%.”
On page 833, the following sentences need to be removed: “However, as with most multispecialty documents, the
conclusions drawn do not necessarily represent the unanimous opinion of the participating organizations. In
particular, the Society for Vascular Surgery had significant concerns about how some of the recent trial data were
analyzed and the recommendations that followed from this analysis. There was specific concern about how the results
of the two recent randomized trials, CREST and ICSS were interpreted and the relative weight given to these results
in developing final guidelines regarding carotid interventions.”

894

