SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY DOCUMENT
The intersocietal IWGDF, ESVS, SVS guidelines on
peripheral artery disease in people with diabetes
mellitus and a foot ulcer
Robert Fitridge,a Vivienne Chuter,b Joseph Mills,c Robert Hinchliffe,d Nobuyoshi Azuma,e
Christian-Alexander Behrendt,f Edward J. Boyko,g Michael S. Conte,h Misty Humphries,i Lee Kirksey,j
Katharine C. McGinigle,k Sigrid Nikol,l Joakim Nordanstig,m Vincent Rowe,n David Russell,o
Jos C. van den Berg,p Maarit Venermo,q and Nicolaas Schaper,r Campbelltown, Australia; Houston, TX; Bristol, UK;
Hokkaido, Japan; Hamburg, Germany; Seattle, WA; CA, USA; Sacramento, CA; Cleveland, OH; Chapel Hill, NC; Hamburg,
Germany; Gothenburg, Sweden; Los Angeles, CA; Leeds, UK; Helsinki, Finland; The Netherlands

Abstract: Diabetes related foot complications have become a major cause of morbidity and are implicated in most major
and minor amputations globally. Approximately 50% of people with diabetes and a foot ulcer have peripheral artery
disease (PAD) and the presence of PAD signiﬁcantly increases the risk of adverse limb and cardiovascular events.
The International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot (IWGDF) has published evidence based guidelines on the
management and prevention of diabetes related foot complications since 1999. This guideline is an update of the 2019
IWGDF guideline on the diagnosis, prognosis, and management of peripheral artery disease in people with diabetes
mellitus and a foot ulcer. For this updated guideline, the IWGDF, the European Society for Vascular Surgery, and the
Society for Vascular Surgery decided to collaborate to develop a consistent suite of recommendations relevant to clinicians in all countries.
This guideline is based on three new systematic reviews. Using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment,
Development and Evaluation framework clinically relevant questions were formulated, and the literature was systematically reviewed. After assessing the certainty of the evidence, recommendations were formulated which were weighed
against the balance of beneﬁts and harms, patient values, feasibility, acceptability, equity, resources required, and when
available, costs.
Through this process ﬁve recommendations were developed for diagnosing PAD in a person with diabetes, with and
without a foot ulcer or gangrene. Five recommendations were developed for prognosis relating to estimating likelihood
of healing and amputation outcomes in a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene. Fifteen recommendations
were developed related to PAD treatment encompassing prioritisation of people for revascularisation, the choice of a
procedure and post-surgical care. In addition, the Writing Committee has highlighted key research questions where
current evidence is lacking.
The Writing Committee believes that following these recommendations will help healthcare professionals to provide
better care and will reduce the burden of diabetes related foot complications. (J Vasc Surg 2023;78:1101-31.)
Keywords: Chronic limb threatening ischaemia; Critical limb ischaemia; Diabetes mellitus; Diabetes related foot ulcer;
Endovascular intervention; Peripheral artery disease

From the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Adelaide and
Vascular and Endovascular Service, Royal Adelaide Hospital Adelaide, Aus-

Hospital, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finlandq; the and the Division of
Endocrinology, Dept. Internal Medicine, MUMC+, The Netherlands.r

traliaa; the School of Health Sciences, Western Sydney University, Campbell-

Additional material for this article may be found online at www.jvascsurg.org.

town, Australiab; the Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USAc; the

Correspondence: Robert Fitridge (e-mail: robert.ﬁtridge@adelaide.edu.au).

Bristol Centre for Surgical Research, University of Bristol, Bristol, UKd; the Asa-

Independent peer review and oversight has been provided by the members of

hikawa Medical University, Hokkaido, Japane; the Department of Vascular

the SVS Document Oversight Committee (Marc Schermerhorn, Chair, Britt

and Endovascular Surgery, Asklepios Clinic Wandsbek, Asklepios Medical

Tonnessen, Vice Chair, Mohammad Eslami, Raul Guzman, Peter Henke, Vik-

School, Hamburg, Germanyf; the University of Washington, Seattle, WA,

ram Kashyap, Ahmed Kayssi, Chris Kwolek, Erika Mitchell, Patrick Muck, Wil-

USAg; the University of California, San Francisco Medical Centre, CA, USAh;

liam Robinson, Evan Ryer, Palma Shaw, Chris Smolock, Chandu Vemuri, Greg

the UC Davis Medical Centre, Sacramento, CA, USAi; The Cleveland Clinic,

Westin, and Karen Woo).

Cleveland, OH, USAj; the University of North-Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USAk;

0741-5214

the Clinical and Interventional Angiology, Asklepios Klinik, St Georg,

Ó The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the Society for Vascular

Hamburg, Germanyl; the Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Swe-

Surgery. Elsevier B.V on behalf of European Society for Vascular Surgery and

denm; the David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, USAn;

John Wiley & Sons Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license

the Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UKo; the CENTRO VASCO-

(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

LARE TICINO Ospedale Regionale di Lugano, sede Civico and Universitätsin-

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2023.07.020

stitut für Diagnostische, Interventionelle und Pädiatrische Radiologie
Inselspital, Universitätsspital Bern Switzerlandp; the Helsinki University

1101

1102

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

LIST OF RECOMMENDATIONS
Summary of recommendations
Chapter
Diagnosis

Recommendation

1. In a person with diabetes without a foot ulcer, take a relevant
history for peripheral artery disease, examine the foot for signs of
ischaemia and palpate the foot pulses at least annually, or with
any change in clinical status of the feet.
2. In a person with diabetes without a foot ulcer, if peripheral artery
disease (PAD) is suspected, consider performing pedal Doppler
waveforms in combination with ankle brachial index (ABI) and
toe brachial index (TBI). No single modality has been shown to be
optimal for the diagnosis of PAD and there is no value above
which PAD can be excluded. However, PAD is less likely in the
presence of ABI 0.9 e 1.3; TBI $ 0.70; and triphasic or biphasic
pedal Doppler waveforms.
3. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, take a
relevant history for peripheral artery disease, examine the person
for signs of ischaemia and palpate the foot pulses.
4. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, evaluate
pedal Doppler waveforms in combination with ankle brachial
index (ABI) and toe brachial index (TBI) measurements to identify
the presence of peripheral artery disease (PAD).
No single modality has been shown to be optimal for the diagnosis
of PAD, and there is no value above which PAD can be excluded.
However, PAD is less likely in the presence of ABI 0.9 e 1.3; TBI $
0.70; and triphasic or biphasic pedal Doppler waveforms.
5. In a person with diabetes without a foot ulcer in whom a
non-emergency invasive foot procedure is being considered,
peripheral artery disease should be excluded by performing
assessment of pedal Doppler waveforms in combination with
ankle brachial index and toe brachial index.

Prognosis

6. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, consider
performing ankle pressures and ankle brachial index (ABI)
measurements to assist in the assessment of likelihood of healing
and amputation.
Ankle pressure and ABI are weak predictors of healing. A low
ankle pressure (e.g., < 50 mmHg) or ABI (e.g., < 0.5) may be
associated with a greater likelihood of impaired healing and
greater likelihood of major amputation.
7. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, consider
performing a toe pressure measurement to assess likelihood of
healing and amputation.
A toe pressure $ 30 mmHg increases the pre-test probability of
healing by up to 30% and a value < 30 mmHg increases the
pre-test probability of major amputation by approximately 20%.
8. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, if a toe
pressure cannot be performed, consider performing a transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2) measurement or a skin perfusion
pressure (SPP) to assess likelihood of healing.
A TcPO2 $ 25 mmHg increases the pre-test probability of healing
by up to 45% and value < 25 mmHg increases the pre-test probability of major amputation by approximately 20%. An SPP $ 40
mmHg increases the pre-test probability of healing by up to 30%.

Grade

Certainty of
evidence

Strong

Low

Conditional

Low

Strong

Low

Strong

Low

Best Practice Statement

Conditional

Low

Conditional

Low

Conditional

Low

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1103

Volume 78, Number 5

Continued.
Chapter

Recommendation

9. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, it is
suggested that the presence of peripheral artery disease and
other causes of poor healing should always be assessed. Diabetes
related micro-angiopathy should not be considered the primary
cause of foot ulceration, gangrene, or poor wound healing
without excluding other causes.

Grade

Certainty of
evidence

Conditional

Low

Conditional

Low

10. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease and a foot
ulcer or gangrene, consider using the Wound/Ischaemia/foot
Infection (WIfI) classiﬁcation system to estimate healing
likelihood and amputation risk.
Treatment

11. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot ulcer
or gangrene who is being considered for revascularisation, evaluate
the entire lower extremity arterial circulation (from aorta to foot)
with detailed visualisation of the below knee and pedal arteries.

Best Practice Statement

Best Practice Statement

12. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, a foot ulcer, and
clinical ﬁndings of ischaemia, a revascularisation procedure should
be considered. Findings of ischaemia include absent pulses, monophasic or absent pedal Doppler waveforms, ankle pressure < 100
mmHg or toe pressure < 60 mmHg. Consult a vascular specialist
unless major amputation is considered medically urgent.
Best Practice Statement

13. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, a foot ulcer, and
severe ischaemia i.e., an ankle brachial index < 0.4, ankle pressure <
50 mmHg, toe pressure < 30 mmHg or transcutaneous oxygen
pressure < 30 mmHg or monophasic or absent pedal Doppler
waveforms, urgently consult a vascular specialist regarding possible
revascularisation.
Best Practice Statement

14. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot ulcer
with infection or gangrene involving any portion of the foot, urgently
consult a vascular specialist in order to determine the timing of a
drainage procedure and a revascularisation procedure.
Best Practice Statement

15. In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer, when the wound deteriorates or fails to signiﬁcantly improve (e.g., a less than 50% reduction
in wound area within four weeks) despite appropriate infection and
glucose control, wound care, and ofﬂoading, reassess the vascular
status and consult with a vascular specialist regarding possible
revascularisation.
Best Practice Statement

16. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot ulcer
or gangrene, avoid revascularisation when the riskebeneﬁt ratio for
the probability of success of the intervention is clearly unfavourable.
(Continued on next page)

1104

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

Continued.
Chapter

Recommendation

Grade

Certainty of
evidence

Conditional

Moderate

17. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene who has an adequate single segment
saphenous vein in whom infrainguinal revascularisation is
indicated and who is suitable for either approach, consider bypass
in preference to endovascular therapy.
Best Practice Statement

18. A person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease (PAD), and a foot ulcer or gangrene, should be treated in a centre with expertise in, or
rapid access to, endovascular and surgical bypass revascularisation.
In this setting, consider making treatment decisions based on the
risk to and preference of the individual, limb threat severity,
anatomical distribution of PAD, and the availability of autogenous
vein.
Best Practice Statement

19. In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot ulcer
or gangrene, revascularisation procedures should aim to restore in
line blood ﬂow to at least one of the foot arteries.
Conditional

Very low

20.In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene undergoing an endovascular procedure,
consider targeting the artery on angiography that supplies the
anatomical region of the ulcer, when possible or practical.
Best Practice Statement

21. In a person with diabetes and either a foot ulcer or gangrene who
has undergone revascularisation, objectively assess adequacy of
perfusion e.g., using non-invasive bedside testing.
Best Practice Statement

22. A person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and either a foot ulcer or gangrene should be treated by a multidisciplinary team as
part of a comprehensive care plan.
Best Practice Statement

23. In a person with diabetes and peripheral artery disease the following
target levels should be:
HbA1c < 8% (< 64 mmol/mol), but higher target HbA1c value may be
necessary depending on the risk of severe hypoglycaemia.
Blood pressure < 140/ 90 mmHg but higher target levels may be
necessary depending on the risk of orthostatic hypotension and
other side effects.
Low density lipoprotein target of < 1.8 mmol/L (< 70 mg/dL) and
reduced by at least 50% of baseline. If high intensity statin therapy
(with or without ezetimibe) is tolerated, target levels < 1.4 mmol/L (55
mg/dL) are recommended.
Best Practice Statement

24. In a person with diabetes and symptomatic peripheral artery disease:
treatment with single antiplatelet therapy should be used,
treatment with clopidogrel should be considered as ﬁrst choice in
preference to aspirin,
combination therapy with aspirin (75 mg to 100 mg once daily) plus
low dose rivaroxaban (2.5 mg twice daily) should be considered for
people without a high bleeding risk.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1105

Volume 78, Number 5

Continued.
Chapter

Recommendation

Grade

Certainty of
evidence

Best Practice Statement

25. In a person with type 2 diabetes and peripheral artery disease:
with an eGFR > 30 mL/min/1.73m2, a sodium glucose cotransporter-2
(SGLT-2) inhibitor or a glucagon like peptide 1 receptor agonist with
demonstrated cardiovascular disease beneﬁt should be considered,
irrespective of the blood glucose level.
SGLT-2 inhibitors should not be started in drug naïve people with a
diabetes related foot ulcer or gangrene and temporary discontinuation should be considered in people already using these drugs, until
the affected foot is healed.

DISCLAIMER
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) develops evidenced-based clinical practice guidelines as a resource
to assist members in the practice of vascular surgery.
The guideline recommendations contained herein are
based on a recent review of published evidence. They
reﬂect the available body of evidence, and their applicability reﬂects the limitations of that data and are subject
to reassessment and revision as new knowledge emerges.
Given these limitations, clinical practice guidelines do not
represent a statement of the standard of care, nor do they
substitute for clinician judgment or supplant patient preference or shared decision-making. The Society of Vascular
Surgery recognizes that departure from guidelines may
be warranted when, in the reasonable judgment of the
treating clinician, such course of action is indicated by
the clinical presentation of the patient, limitations of available resources, advances in knowledge or technology, or
patient preference. The reader must rely solely on their
own judgment to determine what practices and procedures, whether included in this practice guideline or not,
are appropriate for them, their patient, their institution,
or their practice.

EXTERNAL EXPERTS, PATIENT
REPRESENTATIVES AND REVIEW PROCESS
The review process had several steps, in which six
external experts, four patient representatives, and guideline reviewers of the International Working Group on the
Diabetic Foot (IWGDF), European Society for Vascular
Surgery (ESVS), and Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS)
were involved. The external experts and patient representatives were from various countries and continents
(Singapore, Japan, South Africa, China, Hong Kong,
Colombia, Bulgaria, Australia, England, the USA). The process started with review of the clinical questions that the
Writing Committee proposed to address, which were
subsequently adjusted, and which formed the basis of
the guideline development. The ﬁrst preliminary version
of the guideline was reviewed by the IWGDF, ESVS, and
members of the SVS Document Oversight Committee.

The revised text was then reviewed by the external experts and patient representatives, and subsequently a
new version was submitted for review to the three organisations. The Writing Committee met for the ﬁrst time in
late 2020 and the ﬁrst draft of the guideline was sent out
for review in December 2022.

METHODOLOGY
This guideline is also part of a set of guidelines (and
their supporting systematic reviews) of the IWGDF on
the management of diabetes related foot ulcers, which
all used the same Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology. These guidelines address the other aspects of
management and are published separately. The IWGDF
editorial board had the task of ensuring that there would
not be too much overlap between these documents and
that they were consistent with each other. The ESVS and
SVS Executive Board agreed with this approach. The
methodology used is described in detail in a separate
IWGDF document (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3656);
here a summary is provided.1
In brief, the GRADE system was followed.2,3 GRADE is
structured by the development of clinical questions and selection of critical outcomes, which are subsequently translated in the PICO (Population, Intervention, Comparison,
Outcome) format. The Writing Committee developed the
clinical questions to be investigated after consultation
with the external experts and patient representatives. Critically important outcomes for clinical questions were voted
upon by the Writing Committee members. Subsequently,
the PICOs were created and voted on for inclusion by
Writing Committee members. The PICOs to be included
were then reviewed by the external experts, patient representatives, and the guideline committee of the societies
involved. The systematic reviews of the literature to address
the clinical questions were performed according to the
preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and
meta-analyses (PRISMA) guideline.4 The process of identifying and evaluating the available evidence, with its main
conclusions, resulted in three systematic reviews on

1106

Fitridge et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
November 2023

Diagnosis, on Prognosis, and on Management of Peripheral
Arterial Disease in Diabetes Mellitus. These systematic reviews are published separately (https://doi.org/10.1002/
dmrr.3683, https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3701, https://doi.
org/10.1002/dmrr.3700).5-7 The population of interest was
people with diabetes mellitus (with or without a foot ulcer
or gangrene, depending on the clinical question). For diagnosis, the intervention was any non-invasive bedside test
and the comparator an objective imaging study; for prognosis the intervention was any non-invasive bedside test
and for treatment the interventions were bypass (open)
and direct revascularisation and the comparators endovascular and indirect revascularisation, respectively. The primary outcomes were wound healing, minor and major
amputation and adverse events, limb salvage, and wound
healing. After the literature search all abstracts and subsequently selected articles were reviewed by two authors, as
described in the systematic reviews. Included studies had
at least 80% of participants with diabetes or in which the results of the participants with diabetes were reported separately. All included studies were assessed for quality and risk
of bias with the following instruments, depending on the
type of study: Quality in Prognosis Studies, the revised quality appraisal tool for studies of diagnostic reliability,
ROBINS-I (for assessing risk of bias in non-randomised
studies of interventions), the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (for
non-randomised studies, including observational and
cohort studies where details regarding allocation to intervention groups was not provided), and the Cochrane risk
of bias 2 tool for randomised controlled trials.8e13 For each
PICO the quality of evidence was graded for risk of bias,
inconsistency, imprecision, publication bias, and overall
quality. The certainty of the evidence was then rated as
high, moderate, low, or very low.
The GRADE evidence to decision approach was subsequently used for the development of the recommendations during online discussions of the Writing Committee
(which were all recorded and available for later review
from the Secretary). In developing each recommendation
and its strength the following aspects were taken into account: beneﬁts, harms, effect size, and certainty; balance
of beneﬁts and harms; resource use; acceptability; feasibility; equity. The strength of each recommendation was
graded as Strong or Conditional. All Writing Committee
members voted on each recommendation. For a Strong
Recommendation at least 75% and for a Conditional
Recommendation at least 60% had to agree. After each
recommendation, a rationale is provided for how each
recommendation was determined.1,14
There were situations where sufﬁcient direct evidence
supporting the formulation of a recommendation could
not be identiﬁed, but performing the actions recommended would very likely result in clear beneﬁt, or not performing the test or intervention in marked harm. In these
situations, an ungraded Best Practice Statement was
formulated with a rationale explaining how the statement

was arrived at and how GRADE criteria for developing such
a statement were considered, as advised in a recent publication of the GRADE group on this topic.15 According to
GRADE, such recommendations should be formulated as
actionable statements when they are deemed necessary
for practice and when the desirable effects of an intervention clearly outweigh its undesirable effects. Although in
these cases direct evidence is lacking, they should be supported by indirect evidence. For the clinical question on
the use of current medical therapies to reduce cardiovascular risk or lower limb events in people with diabetes and
symptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD), the authors
did not perform a systematic review or develop graded recommendations, as recent high quality guidelines on these
topics already exist.16e23 However, to give the reader a complete overview a summary of these existing guidelines was
created, where relevant for the clinical question, and adapted to the person with diabetes mellitus and symptomatic
PAD. These recommendations were also formulated as
Best Practice Statements. It is acknowledged that for
certain recommendations high quality evidence exists, as
summarised in other guidelines of organisations such as
ESVS, SVS and American Diabetes Association, but for
others there is only lesser quality evidence. In order not to
repeat all these evidence based guidelines already developed by other relevant organisations, ungraded Best Practice Statements were made, with references provided to
the relevant guidelines. Finally, the Writing Committee
considered topics for future research and voted to focus
on ﬁve key topics, which are discussed at the end of the
guideline.
The recommendations and corresponding rationales
were reviewed by the same international external experts and committees responsible for guideline development of the three aforementioned societies. Further
details are provided in the IWGDF guidelines methodology document.1 The summary of judgements tables that
were the basis for formulating each recommendation
and Best Practice Statement, can be found in the
Supplementary material for this article. These systematic
reviews provide the evidence for the graded recommendations made in this guideline.

TARGET POPULATION AND TARGET AUDIENCE
Poorly healing foot ulcers or gangrene in people with diabetes mellitus are frequently caused by several factors
acting in concert. The primary target population of this
guideline is people with diabetes mellitus with a foot ulcer
or gangrene on any portion of the foot (with or without neuropathy) in whom the presence of PAD could have contributed to the development of the ulcer and or its poor healing
potential. The secondary target group is people with diabetes mellitus in whom the presence of PAD was considered or needed to be excluded. People with pure venous
ulcers, ulcers above the ankle, acute limb ischaemia,

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1107

Volume 78, Number 5

embolic disease, and non-atherosclerotic chronic vascular
conditions of the lower extremity were excluded.
The primary target audience of this guideline is vascular
specialists and all other healthcare professionals who are
involved in the diagnosis, management, and prevention
of diabetes related foot ulcers and gangrene, who work
in primary, secondary, and tertiary care.
Patient representatives will be approached to discuss
which elements of the guideline should be included in
the Information for Patients. This will result in a list of
items that should be addressed in this information. Given
cultural and language differences, the ﬁnal text should
be produced on a national or local level.

GUIDELINE WRITING GROUP CONFLICT OF
INTEREST POLICY
The three organisations participating in this guideline
are committed to developing trustworthy clinical practice guidelines through transparency and full disclosure
by those participating in the process of guideline development. To prevent a major Conﬂict of Interest (COI),
members of the Writing Committee were not allowed
to serve as an ofﬁcer, board member, trustee, owner, or
employee of a company directly or indirectly involved
in the topic of this guideline. Before the ﬁrst and last
meeting of the Writing Committee, members were
asked to report any COI in writing. In addition, at the
beginning of each meeting this question was also asked
and if answered yes, the members were asked to submit
an updated COI form. These COIs included income
received from biomedical companies, device manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies, or other companies
producing products related to the ﬁeld. In addition, industry relationships had to be disclosed each time and
these included: ownerships of stocks or options or bonds
of a company, any consultancy, scientiﬁc advisory committee membership, or lecturer for a company, research
grants, or income from patents. These incomes could
either be personal or obtained by an institution with
which the member had a relationship. All disclosures
were reviewed by the three organisations, and these
can be found at IWGDFguidelines.org/. No company
was involved in the development or review of the guideline. Nobody else involved in the guideline received any
payment or remuneration of any costs.

DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY AS USED IN
THIS DOCUMENT
The deﬁnitions and criteria for diabetes related foot disease were standardised by the IWGDF and in parallel to
this guideline an update is published.24 In addition, in
this guideline the following terminology was used:
Bedside testing: any non-invasive test assessing for PAD
in the lower limb using a measure of blood ﬂow that
could be conducted at the bedside.

Chronic limb threatening ischaemia: a clinical syndrome
deﬁned by the presence of peripheral artery disease in combination with rest pain, gangrene, or foot ulcer of at least
two
weeks’
duration.
Venous,
embolic,
nonatherosclerotic, and traumatic aetiologies are excluded.
Diabetes related micro-angiopathy: pathological structural and functional changes in the microcirculation of
people with diabetes mellitus, which can occur in any
part of the body as a consequence of the disease.
Diabetes related foot ulcer: a break of the skin of the foot
that involves, as a minimum, the epidermis and part of
the dermis in a person with diabetes and usually accompanied by neuropathy and or PAD in the lower extremity.
Diabetes related foot gangrene: a condition that occurs
when body tissue dies because of insufﬁcient blood supply, infection, or injury.
Foot perfusion: tissue perfusion strictly means the volume
of blood that ﬂows through a unit of tissue and is often
expressed in mL blood/100 g of tissue. With respect to clinical assessment of the foot, perfusion is traditionally
measured by the surrogate markers of systolic arterial pressure at the level of the ankle and toe arteries. Pressure measurements may be misleading in people with diabetes due
to the frequent presence of medial calciﬁcation. This has led
to the development of a number of alternative clinically
used means of assessing tissue perfusion, including TcPO2
(transcutaneous pressure of oxygen), SPP (skin perfusion
pressure), PAT (pedal acceleration time), and near infrared
spectrophotometry (NIRS).
Multidisciplinary team: a group of people from relevant
clinical disciplines, whose interactions are guided by speciﬁc team functions and processes to achieve team and
person deﬁned favourable outcomes.
Peripheral artery disease (PAD): obstructive atherosclerotic vascular disease of the arteries from aorta to foot
with clinical symptoms, signs, or abnormalities on noninvasive or invasive vascular assessment, resulting in
disturbed or impaired circulation in one or more
extremities.

INTRODUCTION
The incidence of diabetes continues to increase in all
countries. Recent estimates are that 537 million people
are affected by diabetes (1 in 11 adults worldwide) and that
783 million individuals will be affected by 2045.25 Diabetes
is associated with signiﬁcant risk of foot complications
including ulceration, gangrene, and amputation. Development of diabetes related foot ulceration (DFU) precedes
up to 85% of non-traumatic amputations, with an annual
incidence of ulceration of approximately 2% and lifetime
incidence of DFU up to 34%.26 Diabetes related complications in the lower limb, including peripheral neuropathy
and PAD, typically precede the development of DFU.27
Collectively, these complications are a leading global cause
of disability, hospitalisation, and amputation, with a high
mortality rate following amputation.28

1108

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

Diabetes is a signiﬁcant risk factor for development of
PAD. In a recent systematic review, Stoberock et al.29 found
that the prevalence of PAD was 10 e 26% in the general
adult population and 20 e 28% in those with diabetes. In
those with DFU, the prevalence of PAD was 50%, which is
consistent with the ﬁndings of the multicentre Eurodiale
study.29,30 PAD in people with diabetes is characterised by
a disease pattern that is frequently multisegmental and
bilateral with impaired collateral formation, often long
segment tibial artery occlusions, and is more distally distributed in the lower limb including frequent presentation of
infragenicular arterial occlusive disease, with an increased
risk of amputation.31e33 The diagnosis of PAD and chronic
limb threatening ischaemia (CLTI) is frequently complicated by the absence of classical symptoms of PAD such
as intermittent claudication and rest pain, probably due
to factors such as sedentary lifestyle and loss of pain sensation due to diabetes related peripheral neuropathy, which
is present in the majority of people with an (ischaemic)
DFU.30,32 Co-existent medial artery calciﬁcation (MAC),
which is also associated with peripheral neuropathy, is
common and can affect the accuracy of non-invasive tests
such as the ankle brachial index (ABI) by causing elevation
of ankle and, to a lesser extent, digital pressures.34
In people with diabetes early diagnosis of PAD is essential.29 The disease process is associated with greater likelihood of delayed or non-healing of DFU, gangrene, and
amputation in addition to increased rates of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.35 The prognosis of a person with diabetes, PAD, and foot ulceration requiring
amputation is worse than for many common cancers,
up to 50% of people will not survive ﬁve years.26,36 PAD
places the person at very high risk of adverse cardiovascular events and thus optimal medical management of
cardiovascular risk factors should be ensured.32 Early
and adequate assessment of foot perfusion is necessary
to ensure that elevated risk of delayed or poor wound
healing and amputation is identiﬁed early so this can
be addressed without treatment delay.
Despite the severity of the outcomes of PAD in people with diabetes, and particularly for those with DFU,
there are few practice guidelines that speciﬁcally
address the diagnosis and management of PAD in
this population. Formulating recommendations for
this speciﬁc population should take into account the
multisystem nature of diabetes and the impact of
other diabetes complications on the utility of diagnostic tests, wound healing, amputation, and survival
outcomes. One of the guidelines that speciﬁcally
addressed these topics has been that of the IWGDF,
with the last version produced in 2019.37 Instead of
making a new updated version, the IWGDF together
with the ESVS and the SVS decided to collaborate in
writing this new, intersociety, practice guideline on
PAD in diabetes mellitus, with emphasis on people
with diabetes related foot ulcers or gangrene. The

aim is to provide evidence based recommendations
on the diagnosis, prognosis (i.e., the prognostic value
of different non-invasive tests), and treatment of PAD
in people with a foot ulcer and diabetes. Each of these
topics is discussed in the different sections below. It is
not the intention to detail the speciﬁc roles, tasks, and
responsibilities of each medical specialty involved as
these vary markedly between and within countries
and this guideline is a multinational initiative. However,
emphasis is given to which expertise should be present, in terms of knowledge, skills, and competence,
to manage people according to the expected standards of care.
Related guidelines. This guideline is also part of the
IWGDF guidelines on the prevention and management
of diabetes related foot disease. Management of PAD in
these people without addressing the other aspects of
DFU treatment will frequently result in suboptimal outcomes. The reader is therefore referred to the other IWGDF
guidelines for these aspects. This IWGDF, ESVS, SVS intersocietal guideline on PAD in people with diabetes mellitus is
also part of the IWGDF guidelines on the management of
diabetes related foot complications with additional chapters on Classiﬁcation (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3648),38
Prevention
(https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3651),39
Offloading (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3647),40 Infection
(https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3687),104 Charcot (https://doi.
org/10.1002/dmrr.3646),41 and Wound healing (https://doi.
org/10.1002/dmrr.3644).42 These guidelines are summarised for daily clinical use in the Practical Guidelines on the
Prevention and Management of Diabetes Related Foot
Disease (https://doi.org/10.1002/dmrr.3657).43 This guideline
builds on a previous version of the IWGDF guideline on
peripheral artery disease in patients with foot ulcers and
diabetes, and integrates with the Global Vascular Guidelines (GVG) on the management of Chronic Limb Threatening Ischaemia.20,37

DIAGNOSIS
Clinical question. In a person with diabetes with or
without a foot ulcer, does medical history and clinical examination (including pulse palpation) compared with a
reference test (imaging - digital subtraction angiography
[DSA], magnetic resonance angiography [MRA],
computed tomography angiography [CTA], colour
Duplex ultrasound [CDUS]) accurately identify and reliably diagnose PAD?
Clinical question. In a person with diabetes with or
without a foot ulcer, which non-invasive bedside testing
alone or in combination compared with reference tests
(imaging - digital subtraction angiography [DSA], magnetic resonance angiography [MRA], computed tomography angiography [CTA], colour Duplex ultrasound
[CDUS]) should be performed to accurately and reliably
diagnose PAD?

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1109

Volume 78, Number 5

Recommendation 1
In a person with diabetes without a foot ulcer, take a relevant
history for peripheral artery disease, examine the foot for signs
of ischaemia and palpate the foot pulses at least annually, or
with any change in clinical status of the feet.
Grade
Strong

Certainty of evidence
Low

Recommendation 2
In a person with diabetes without a foot ulcer, if peripheral
artery disease (PAD) is suspected, consider performing pedal
Doppler waveforms in combination with ankle brachial index
(ABI) and toe brachial index (TBI). No single modality has been
shown to be optimal for the diagnosis of PAD and there is no
value above which PAD can be excluded. However, PAD is less
likely in the presence of ABI 0.9 e 1.3; TBI $ 0.70; and triphasic
or biphasic pedal Doppler waveforms.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. Diagnosis and treatment of PAD is critical
due to the increased risk of developing DFU as well as
the increased rate of complications from co-existent
cardiovascular disease including myocardial infarction
and stroke.35 Evidence for the diagnostic accuracy of
pulse palpation for PAD in people with diabetes without
DFU is limited with two studies of low quality demonstrating that although presence of pulses does not
exclude disease, there is a small increase in ability to rule
disease in where a foot pulse is absent or weak (positive
likelihood ratio [PLR] 1.84 e 2.46).44,45 The PLR gives the
change in odds of experiencing an outcome if the test is
positive, whereas the negative likelihood ratio (NLR) expresses a change in odds of experiencing an outcome if
the test is negative. A PLR or NLR of 1.0 means that the
test does not change the probability of the outcome over
and above the pre-test probability and therefore is not a
useful diagnostic test. However, it is important to recognise that pulse palpation should be performed, and results considered in the context of other clinical
examinations that may be associated with PAD
including hair loss, muscle atrophy, and reduced peripheral skin temperature. It should be noted that these
clinical examinations are highly subjective and such
ﬁndings may also be associated with neuropathy. PAD
may also be asymptomatic or have an atypical presentation in people with diabetes as in other elderly or at risk
populations.27,46,47 For example, peripheral neuropathy
can mask pain symptoms and autonomic neuropathy
can result in a warm foot, meaning that the widely recognised signs and symptoms of PAD may not be
present.48

These recommendations are applicable to all people
with diabetes. When DFU is absent, but there are clinical
signs and symptoms of PAD or PAD is suspected, for
example due to long standing diabetes, chronic hyperglycaemia, other diabetes complications such as peripheral neuropathy, or the presence of atherosclerotic
disease in other vascular beds, more frequent screening
vascular assessment including additional bedside testing
is necessary. These recommendations are consistent with
other (inter)national guidelines on the management of
diabetes, endorsing annual clinical assessment for PAD
(and for other foot complications) in people with
diabetes.49e52
Although based on low quality evidence, data demonstrating increased likelihood of PAD in those with weak
or absent pulses and elevated risk of cardiovascular
morbidity and mortality support the preference of a person with diabetes for clinical examination including
pulse palpation to be performed.5,35 The non-invasive nature of clinical examination and pulse palpation suggest
that these assessments would be valued by people with
diabetes as initial diagnostic tests. As equipment is not
required, the Writing Committee considered pulse
palpation and other forms of clinical examination as having low resource requirements, which can be applied on
a broad scale by a range of practitioners, and offer a
method to increase equity of healthcare access that is
both feasible for healthcare providers and acceptable
for people with diabetes. This Strong Recommendation
is therefore made, based on low certainty of evidence
and expert opinion.
Bedside testing techniques that provide objective measurement of peripheral blood ﬂow in the lower extremity
(e.g., ankle brachial index [ABI], toe brachial index [TBI],
and pedal Doppler waveforms) have been shown to be
useful to diagnose and exclude PAD in people with diabetes. The systematic review demonstrates that multiple
bedside testing techniques that offer objective measurement of the peripheral circulation in the lower limb are
useful as a means to rule disease in or out for people
with diabetes without a DFU but who are suspected of
having PAD.5
Forty studies investigating the diagnostic accuracy of
non-invasive bedside tests in populations with diabetes
were identiﬁed.5 Twenty eight of the studies used prospective recruitment and the remainder were retrospective. Overall, the studies were of low quality and evidence
was judged as being of low certainty. Although it was not
possible to identify the absolute threshold or normal
values of bedside tests, it is suggested that PAD is more
likely to be present in this population with an ABI < 0.9
or > 1.3, a TBI < 0.70, and presence of one or more monophasic Doppler waveforms from assessment of pedal arteries with continuous wave Doppler (CWD).5 In people
without DFU, an ABI of < 0.90 is associated with a moderate to large increase in likelihood of PAD with PLRs

1110

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

ranging from 4.17 to 17.91; however, the ability to rule disease out is variable (NLR 0 e 0.54) (Supplementary
Table S1). A TBI < 0.70 has a moderate ability to diagnose
and exclude PAD (PLR 2.0 e 3.55, NLR 0.25 e 0.44), and
the presence of a visual monophasic pedal Doppler
waveform (compared with a biphasic or triphasic
Doppler waveform where the waveform crosses the
zero ﬂow baseline and contains both forward and reverse
velocity components)53 has a moderate ability to diagnose and exclude PAD (PLR 7.09, NLR 0.19).
Non-invasive bedside tests are therefore likely to be
beneﬁcial for people without a DFU; however, high quality studies of diagnostic accuracy are required. A summary of results is provided in Supplementary Table S1.
When calculating the ABI in the leg of a person with and
without DFU for the purposes of diagnosing PAD, it is
advised to use the lower systolic blood pressure of either
the dorsalis pedis or posterior tibial artery as this improves
the diagnostic accuracy of the test.5 For PAD affecting arteries below the knee, this calculation method identiﬁes
the most severe disease while using the higher pressure
identiﬁes the least affected artery. Use of three tests (ABI,
TBI, and pedal Doppler waveforms) is recommended.
This is because the accuracy of the tests may be affected
by the presence of other diabetes related complications.
Due to the use of bedside measures to monitor PAD status
over time, reliability (or reproducibility) of the tests is important in determining their clinical effectiveness. The systematic review showed that the reliability of both the ABI and
TBI was good to excellent. However, these tests are limited
by wide margins of error, which affect the amount of
change required for this to be considered a true change
rather than related to error in the measurement. For
example, an ABI measured by the same rater requires a
change of 0.15 to be considered a true change.54 Therefore,
care should be taken in performing the measurement to
control for factors that may introduce error including incorrect positioning of the person being tested (this should be
horizontal supine) and incorrect testing procedures (e.g.,
pre-test exercise, caffeine consumption, etc.).
The recommendation identiﬁes the need to perform
bedside testing in people with diabetes in whom PAD is
suspected. In people with diabetes without a DFU, the presence of PAD will increase the risk of a future DFU and amputation. The presence of PAD will inﬂuence the frequency of
screening and the measures that can be safely taken to
reduce the risk of amputation, as described in the Prevention Guidelines of the IWGDF (https://doi.org/10.1002/
dmrr.3651).39 It is therefore critical that, apart from the history and foot examination, risk factors for PAD are also
considered such as long standing or poorly controlled diabetes or diagnosis of atherosclerosis in other vascular
beds. Considering the beneﬁts and harms of this recommendation it is judged to be essential to diagnose or
exclude PAD in this population given the large impact of
untreated disease, the low burden of the tests to the person

undergoing testing, and the high likelihood that diagnosis
will be valued by them. All aforementioned bedside tests
(ABI, TBI, CWD) should be performed by trained healthcare
professionals in a standardised manner and these tests can
be applied by a wide range of practitioners, after having
received adequate training. From the perspective of middle
or high income countries the resources required to undertake bedside testing are relatively low compared with other
methods of diagnosing PAD such as CDUS, CTA, MRA, and
angiography. It is likely that many people will value the
knowledge that their feet need more intensive care to prevent amputation, but this has not been studied in a sufﬁciently large cohort. Based on the uncertainty of the
evidence a Conditional Recommendation was made for
additional non-invasive testing in this group of people
with asymptomatic disease. The role of additional testing
in those with intermittent claudication is outside the scope
of this guideline.
Recommendation 3
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, take a
relevant history for peripheral artery disease, examine the
person for signs of ischaemia and palpate the foot pulses.
Grade
Strong

Certainty of evidence
Low

Recommendation 4
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, evaluate pedal Doppler waveforms in combination with ankle
brachial index (ABI) and toe brachial index (TBI) measurements to identify the presence of peripheral artery disease
(PAD).
No single modality has been shown to be optimal for the
diagnosis of PAD, and there is no value above which PAD can
be excluded. However, PAD is less likely in the presence of ABI
0.9 e 1.3; TBI $ 0.70; and triphasic or biphasic pedal Doppler
waveforms.
Grade
Strong

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. PAD is present in approximately half of the
people with a DFU.29,30 Therefore, in any person with
diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, PAD should be
considered and should be excluded with the appropriate diagnostic strategies. Subsequently, once diagnosed the second question is whether the PAD is of
sufﬁcient severity to contribute to delayed wound healing and increased risk of amputation. This will inform
whether further investigation or intervention is required.
In addition, although cardiovascular risk factor modiﬁcation is always indicated in people with diabetes, those
with symptomatic PAD (i.e., including those with a DFU)
belong to the very high cardiovascular risk category and

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1111

Volume 78, Number 5

need more intensive risk treatment, as described in the
‘Treatment’ section.
Apart from taking a clinical history, all people with a DFU
or gangrene should undergo a complete physical examination, including palpation of the lower limb pulses which
can help to determine the presence of arterial disease.55 In
the systematic review on diagnosis, one low quality study
that assessed the diagnostic accuracy of pedal pulse
assessment in a population where all participants had a
DFU was identiﬁed.56 Pulse palpation had a PLR of 1.38
and a NLR 0.75 for PAD in people presenting with a foot ulcer.56 These likelihood ratios represent a very small ability
of the test to identify or exclude disease. Pulse palpation
should be seen as the ﬁrst step in a systematic evaluation
of the affected limb and foot, but when DFU is present
further diagnostic procedures should be performed with
non-invasive bedside testing techniques as clinical examination is not sufﬁcient to exclude PAD. Although of
limited value it should not be discarded as in the early
phase of management other tests are sometimes unavailable, or ﬁndings may be difﬁcult to interpret. The evidence
base is small with low certainty but as previously discussed
this form of testing has low resource requirements, can be
applied on a broad scale by a range of practitioners, is
feasible, and may increase equity of healthcare access.
This Strong Recommendation is therefore made, based
on low certainty of evidence and expert opinion. However,
a systematic foot examination for signs of ischaemia
should be the starting point of a systematic evaluation,
as failure to diagnose and treat this condition may have
dire consequences in many people. When DFU is present
further diagnostic testing using bedside testing techniques in the ﬁrst instance should be performed as palpation of foot pulses and clinical examination alone are not
sufﬁcient to exclude PAD.
The systematic review identiﬁed eight studies56e63 of
diagnostic accuracy of bedside testing that included participants with active DFU, with the proportion of the study
population affected ranging from 6.6% to 100%.56,57 One
study demonstrated a visual pedal Doppler waveform
evaluation to be diagnostic (PLR $ 10), with a moderate
ability of the test to exclude PAD. In a second study
with z 40% of the participants having a foot ulcer, the
PLR was lower (3.04) and the NLR similar (0.35).61 In studies
in which the majority of the study population had DFU, an
ABI < 0.90 increased the pre-test probability of disease by
a small amount (PLR 1.69 e 2.40) with limited ability of the
test to exclude disease (NLR 0.53 e 0.75).56,59,62,63 Similarly,
data for the TBI were limited and variable with the PLR in
both mixed populations (with and without DFU) and DFU
only, ranging from 1.62 (indicating limited ability to diagnose disease) to being diagnostic (PLR $ 10) and indicating the test has small to moderate ability to exclude
disease (NLR 0.30 e 0.47).56,59,61,62
All the aforementioned non-invasive bedside tests (ABI,
TBI, CWD) can be applied by a wide range of

practitioners, in particular in settings where people are
treated in secondary care or specialised outpatient foot
clinics. These tests have low resource requirements relative to other methods of diagnosing PAD such as CDUS
and angiography. These factors are likely to increase equity in healthcare access and make the tests feasible and
acceptable for both the person having the tests and
healthcare providers. Given the large potential beneﬁcial
effect and its impact on subsequent treatment a Strong
Recommendation for this population has been made,
although the limitations of the evidence base are
acknowledged.
Recommendation 5
In a person with diabetes without a foot ulcer in whom a nonemergency invasive foot procedure is being considered, peripheral artery disease should be excluded by performing
assessment of pedal Doppler waveforms in combination with
ankle brachial index and toe brachial index.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale. Except when required as an emergency to
control severe infection, all people with diabetes who
require foot surgery should have vascular testing consisting of pedal Doppler waveforms in combination with ABI
and toe pressure (TP) or TBI. Non-emergency invasive
procedures, such as elective surgery, may be indicated in
people with diabetes without a DFU with the intent to
address painful foot conditions. Particularly in those with
peripheral neuropathy,64 prophylactic procedures could
be considered to address risk factors for foot ulceration,
such as foot deformity and elevated localised plantar
pressures. Prior to any surgical procedure on the foot in a
person with diabetes, PAD status should be established,
and this ﬁnding should contribute to determination of
the suitability of an individual for the procedure. The
decision to perform the elective surgery should be made
in a shared decision making process that will be inﬂuenced by balancing the beneﬁt of the operation against
the potential harm, such as the risk of poor wound
healing based on the non-invasive assessments.
As discussed above, bedside testing generally has moderate ability to diagnose PAD or to exclude this disease in
people with diabetes mellitus. Any abnormal test result
should be considered indicative of PAD. Therefore, it is
suggested this recommendation will reduce the risk of
undiagnosed severe PAD which would potentially negatively affect post-surgical outcomes and it is likely that
people will value this approach. Feasibility and the
impact of these tests on resource use are discussed in
Recommendation 4. No randomised controlled trials
(for ethical reasons) or observational studies of sufﬁcient
quality have been performed on the added value of

1112

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

performing bedside tests prior to any surgical procedure
in the foot. Given the indirect evidence discussed above,
the major clinical implications of missing the diagnosis
of PAD and the limited harm and additional costs, a
Best Practice Statement was made.

PROGNOSIS
Clinical question. In a person with diabetes, suspected
PAD, and a foot ulcer or gangrene, which non-invasive
bedside tests, alone or in combination, at any time
point (including after revascularisation procedures), predict DFU healing, healing after minor amputation, and
major amputation?

Recommendation 6
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene,
consider performing ankle pressures and ankle brachial index
(ABI) measurements to assist in the assessment of likelihood
of healing and amputation.
Ankle pressure and ABI are weak predictors of healing. A low
ankle pressure (e.g., < 50 mmHg) or ABI (e.g., < 0.5) may be
associated with greater likelihood of impaired healing and
greater likelihood of major amputation.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Recommendation 7
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene,
consider performing a toe pressure measurement to assess
likelihood of healing and amputation.
A toe pressure $ 30 mmHg increases the pre-test probability
of healing by up to 30% and a value < 30 mmHg increases the
pre-test probability of major amputation by approximately
20%.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Recommendation 8
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, if a toe
pressure cannot be performed, consider performing a transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2) measurement or a skin
perfusion pressure (SPP) to assess likelihood of healing.
A TcPO2 $ 25 mmHg increases the pre-test probability of
healing by up to 45% and value < 25 mmHg increases the
pre-test probability of major amputation by approximately
20%. An SPP $ 40 mmHg increases the pre-test probability of
healing by up to 30%.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. The presence of PAD constitutes a substantially increased risk of failure to heal and major lower

limb amputation for people with a diabetes related
foot ulcer or gangrene. Bedside testing results are an integral component of determining the severity of
ischaemia and, to that end, to determine the need for,
and urgency of, further investigations. Non-invasive
bedside tests including AP, ABI, and TP should be performed in a person with a DFU or gangrene to guide
further management as they can help to predict the
chance of healing and or major amputation. TcPO2 and
skin perfusion pressure (SPP) give additional information
on healing potential and are useful for measuring
perfusion following forefoot amputations when TP are no
longer possible. However, in the authors’ opinion these
are secondary tests due to greater expense and less
availability of the equipment and the time and expertise
required to apply them.
Assessment of the pedal arterial Doppler waveforms
combined with measurement of the AP and subsequent
calculation of the ABI, are usually the ﬁrst steps in the
assessment of PAD. Although relevant for its diagnosis,
as discussed in the Rationales of Recommendations 1
and 2, it was not possible to identify sufﬁcient data on
the capacity for Doppler arterial waveform analysis to
predict wound healing in populations with DFU.5 Two
low quality studies were identiﬁed which concluded
that abnormal or absent Doppler waveforms were associated with a small (15%) increase in the likelihood of major amputation,65,66 further limiting its use. Similarly,
there are currently insufﬁcient data to support the use
of TBI to predict healing or amputation outcomes; however, TP (as a component of TBI) has been more widely
investigated and is therefore included in the
recommendation.
The predictive capacity of APs and ABI for wound healing was inconsistent in the 15 studies included in the systematic review.5 Thresholds for AP and ABI which were
associated with increased probability of healing could
not be identiﬁed; however, a very low ankle pressure
(e.g., < 50 mmHg) or ABI (e.g., < 0.5) was associated
with a greater likelihood of delayed healing. According
to current guidelines revascularisation should be considered when such values are measured in people with PAD
and an ulcer or gangrene.20 AP and ABI values > 50
mmHg or > 0.5, respectively, should not be used in isolation to predict likelihood of ulcer healing given their uncertainty, but detailed clinical examination and further
vascular testing is needed, as stated in Recommendation
6. Regarding amputation risk, the probability of major
amputation was increased by approximately 45% with
an ABI < 0.4 based on one study in people who had undergone transmetatarsal amputation. However, an ABI
threshold < 0.9 was not associated with any probability
increase.5,67 Thresholds used for AP were highly variable
in the literature and it was not possible to determine
which threshold was optimal.5 Other research has
demonstrated that an elevated ABI (> 1.3) is associated

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1113

Volume 78, Number 5

with both greater likelihood of amputation and worse
amputation free survival outcomes and therefore should
be recognised as a risk factor for poor DFU outcomes.
The same observations were made in people without
diabetes, and an elevated ABI is therefore seen as a
marker for more severe cardiovascular disease with an
elevated risk of amputation.68,69
TP and TBI can assess blood ﬂow distal to the forefoot
and in toes, where most DFUs occur.70 Based on 10
studies of low quality it was found that with TP $ 30
mmHg the pre-test probability of healing was
increased by up to 30%.71 Regarding major amputation, a value < 30 mmHg increases the probability of
major amputation by approximately 20%, which suggests a (somewhat) lower predictive capacity
compared with the ABI. In the three studies identiﬁed,
there was inconsistent and insufﬁcient evidence for the
use of the TBI to predict either healing or major
amputation.
TcPO2 and SPP are additional tests that have the
advantage of measuring perfusion at tissue level and
therefore reﬂect both macrovascular and microvascular
function. In the systematic review the majority of available studies (n ¼ 7) which were of low quality, reported
that TcPO2 can be used to predict the likelihood of
DFU healing,71e80 although there is variability in the
thresholds used. With a TcPO2 $ 25 mmHg the pre-test
probability of healing is increased by up to 45%, which
was higher than reported for the other tests in the
included studies. Regarding amputation, a value < 25
mmHg increases the probability of major amputation
by approximately 20%, a predictive value that seems
lower than that of the ABI when the different studies
were compared. An SPP ($ 40 mmHg) was shown to increase the pre-test probability of healing by up to 30% in
one study of low quality.81 There are insufﬁcient data
investigating the relationship between SPP and amputation outcomes to formulate a recommendation.
In summary, when comparing different studies, the ABI
seemed to have the best predictive capacity for major
amputation, while the TP and TcPO2 seemed to have a
better predictive capacity for wound healing. It was noteworthy that there was insufﬁcient evidence for the use of
the TBI to predict either healing or amputation outcomes. The number of prospective studies and the number of participants included in the aforementioned
studies were relatively low, the populations studied
differed, and results of the tests performed were
frequently not blinded. Moreover, comparison of studies
was hampered by the fact that different studies used
different thresholds for disease and thus combining
data for analysis was not possible.
When bedside testing is not performed the risks of a
poor clinical outcome or unnecessary, more costly, investigations are large. As discussed earlier, most bedside
tests are of low burden to both the person and the

healthcare system, although training and expertise are
necessary. If these tests are not performed, the clinician
must rely only on clinical judgement and on imaging investigations. Although imaging will provide details of the
arterial anatomy, the non-invasive bedside tests will
inform the clinician about the perfusion in the foot. However, absolute perfusion thresholds applicable for all people cannot be provided as the outcome of the DFU is
determined not only by the degree of ischaemia. Other
factors such as infection, extent of tissue loss, and ulcer
depth, can have a major effect on healing potential
and amputation risk, as discussed below. For this reason
and the uncertainty of the evidence, a Conditional
Recommendation for use of AP, ABI, and TP to predict
the likelihood of healing and amputation was made.
TcPO2 and SPP tests require more expensive equipment and greater expertise for application than other
bedside testing, which may be a barrier for centres in
low or middle income countries. Although healthcare expenditures may increase with each of these measurements, incorrect assessment of the severity of PAD can
result in inadequate treatment and poorer outcomes
with ultimately an increase in costs. Importantly, all the
aforementioned bedside tests have varying capacity to
predict likelihood of healing and of amputation, as summarised in the systematic review.6 Based on current evidence no test has convincingly been shown to perform
better than other tests as a prognostic indicator of both
healing and amputation. In the opinion of the Writing
Committee multiple tests should be used. Given the
limited available evidence on TcPO2 and SPP and their
higher costs, a Conditional Recommendation on these
two tests was made.

Recommendation 9
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene, it is
suggested that the presence of peripheral artery disease and
other causes of poor healing should always be assessed. Diabetes related micro-angiopathy should not be considered the
primary cause of foot ulceration, gangrene, or poor wound
healing without excluding other causes.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. The deﬁnition of microvascular disease in
DFU and its role in wound healing are not well understood. Many clinicians have assumed that microvascular
disease is present in a high proportion of people with
DFU and that it is a major cause of delayed wound healing, often despite a lack of thorough investigation of
large vessel arterial disease. As discussed elsewhere in
this guideline, people with diabetes and a DFU
frequently have distal, lower leg obstructive atherosclerotic disease, often with involvement of the pedal

1114

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

arteries, which due to their smaller size can be difﬁcult to
image. However, advances in imaging and technology
have shown that tibial and pedal arteries are potentially
treatable by endovascular and open surgical techniques.
The term microvascular disease describes abnormalities affecting the arteriolar, capillary and venular vessels. Several studies have reported microvascular
abnormalities in the skin and subcutaneous tissues in
people with diabetes. These abnormalities can be structural, i.e. occlusive disease and alterations in the blood
vessel wall, and functional, such as impaired vasodilatory responses to endogenous or noxious stimuli.82
However, in the systematic review on this topic it was
not possible to identify studies of sufﬁcient quality
showing that such abnormalities contribute to
impaired wound healing (Supplementary material).
One prospective study did report that microvascular
changes observed in skin biopsies in the feet in people
with diabetes and neuro-ischaemia were associated
with poorer wound healing after revascularisation.83
However, both these microvascular changes and poorer
wound healing could be due to tissue damage caused
by ischaemia and not by pre-existing diabetes related
micro-angiopathy. If perfusion of the foot ulcer is
adequate but the ulcer fails to heal, other causes of
poor wound healing should be sought and treated,
such as infection, insufﬁcient protection from biomechanical stress, oedema, poor glycaemic control, poor
nutritional state, and underlying co-morbidities.43
Based on the lack of studies showing that diabetes
related micro-angiopathy contributes to poor wound
healing in DFU and the potential harm if this is
assumed, a Conditional Recommendation based on
low certainty of evidence was made.

Recommendation 10
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene, consider using the Wound/Ischaemia/foot
Infection (WIfI) classiﬁcation system to estimate healing likelihood and amputation risk.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Low

Rationale. The Wound, Ischaemia and Foot infection
(WIfI) classiﬁcation system was developed to guide the
clinician in estimating the risk of amputation and potential beneﬁt of revascularisation in people with a
foot ulcer or gangrene, and is recommended by the
Global Vascular Guideline for limb staging (relating to
severity of limb threat) in people with chronic limb
threatening ischaemia (CLTI).20 This system was developed by an interdisciplinary panel of experts and stages
the limb based on the presence of, and severity of, the

foot wound, ischaemia, and infection. A Delphi
consensus process was used to allocate these combinations into four clinical stages based on very low (stage
1), low (stage 2), moderate (stage 3), and high (stage 4)
predicted one year risk of major amputation. Consistent
with all other commonly used limb staging systems, the
individual’s co-morbidities which are likely to inﬂuence
wound healing and amputation risk are not incorporated into WIfI. A second distinct aspect of the WIfI
system is the predicted likelihood of beneﬁt from
revascularisation.84
A recent systematic review concluded that in people
undergoing a revascularisation procedure, the likelihood of an amputation after one year increases with
higher WIfI stages. The estimated one year major amputation rates from four studies comprising 569 participants were 0%, 8% (95% CI 3 e 21%), 11% (95% CI 6 e
18%), and 38% (95% CI 21 e 58%), for WIfI clinical stages
1e4, respectively.85 For the population of people with a
DFU, the WIfI system was evaluated in the IWGDF systematic review on classiﬁcation systems, that is published in parallel to this guideline. In summary, in
people with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer, this systematic review identiﬁed seven studies, with low certainty of
evidence, demonstrating that a high WIfI limb clinical
stage
is
associated
with
longer
time
to
healing and increased likelihood of non-healing at six
and 12 months.86e92 Higher WIfI clinical stages are also
associated with increased likelihood of major amputation, with one study reporting an amputation rate of
64% for stage 4.93 Similarly, higher WIfI clinical stages
have been linked to high rates of minor amputation
and lower rates of amputation free survival at 12
months.88,89,92,94e99 For prediction of revascularisation
beneﬁt there are few data available and inadequate evidence to determine whether WIfI revascularisation
beneﬁt staging predicts healing or amputation outcomes in people undergoing revascularisation.
The WIfI tool (Tables 1e5) has demonstrated predictive
capacity for the key outcomes of wound healing and
amputation in people with DFU.88,89,92,94e99 It uses clinical grading of infection and wound characteristics in
combination with non-invasive bedside testing to determine the severity of ischaemia and it has wide availability, also as an online tool (https://apps.apple.com/us/app/
svs-ipg/id1014644425). Moreover, it can be used by a wide
range of practitioners making its application in clinical
practice feasible, its costs are relatively limited, and it is
expected to be acceptable to practitioners as well as being of value to people receiving the care. It is likely to
stimulate a standardised access to a form of vascular
assessment, which is also relevant for low income countries where invasive testing may not be widely available.
Due to the observational and often retrospective nature
of most of the current evidence, this recommendation
was made Conditional.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1115

Volume 78, Number 5

TREATMENT
Clinical question
In which persons with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer or
gangrene using clinical ﬁndings, perfusion test ﬁndings,
and or classiﬁcation systems, should revascularisation
be considered?

Table 1. Wound Ischaemia foot Infection Classiﬁcation
System: Wound clinical category adapted from Mills et al.
(reference 84)
Grade

Clinical description

0

Ischaemic rest pain; without ulcer
or gangrene

1

Minor tissue loss: small shallow
ulceration on foot or distal leg. No
gangrene.
Salvageable with simple skin
coverage or # 2 toe amputations

2

Major tissue loss: deeper ulceration(s)
with exposed bone, joint or tendon
not involving calcaneus.
Gangrenous changes limited to
digits.
Salvageable with extensive forefoot
surgery

3

Extensive ulcer or gangrene involving
forefoot or midfoot; full thickness
heel ulcer 6 calcaneal
involvement.
Salvageable with complex foot
reconstruction and/or complex
wound management

intervention in people with diabetes and a foot ulcer.20
Modalities that can be used to obtain anatomical information include CDUS, CTA, MRA, or DSA (including
anteroposterior and lateral views of the foot). The
Writing Committee considered that each of the imaging techniques have their advantages and disadvantages, and their use will depend heavily on the
availability of equipment and local expertise, preferences of the individual clinician, and associated costs.
For these reasons a Best Practice Statement was
formulated. Regarding their use in people with diabetes, the utility of some these techniques, such as
CDUS and CTA, can be affected by (severe) MAC, which
is frequently present in the smaller arteries of the leg in
people with DFU. MRA images are incapable of
deﬁning the extent of calciﬁcation which may be
important when planning revascularisation.20 Finally,
as stated in the GVG, catheter DSA, represents the
gold standard imaging technique, especially for the
Table 2. Wound Ischaemia foot Infection Classiﬁcation
System: Ischaemia category adapted from Mills et al.
(reference 84)
Grade

ABI

Ankle SP e mmHg

TP, TcPO2 e mmHg

0

$0.8

>100

$60

1

0.6e0.79

70e100

40e59

2

0.40e0.59

50e69

30e39

3

<0.40

<50

<30

ABI ¼ ankle brachial index; SP ¼ systolic pressure; TP ¼ toe pressure;
TcPO2 ¼ transcutaneous oxygen pressure.

Table 3. Wound Ischaemia foot Infection Classiﬁcation
System: foot Infection category adapted from Mills et al.
(reference 84)

Recommendation 11
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene who is being considered for revascularisation, evaluate the entire lower extremity arterial circulation
(from aorta to foot) with detailed visualisation of the below
knee and pedal arteries.
Grade

Clinical description

IDSA

IWGDF
Class

0

Wound without purulence or
manifestations of infection

Uninfected

1

1

> 2 manifestations of
infection, erythema (< 2 cm),
pain or tenderness, warmth,
induration or purulent
discharge

Mild

2

2

Local infection in a patient
who is systemically stable as
described above with
erythema > 2cm, or involving
subcutaneous structures e.g.,
abscess, osteomyelitis, septic
arthritis or fasciitis

Moderate

3

3

Infection in patient with
systemic or metabolic
toxicity (systematic
inﬂammatory response
syndrome/ sepsis)

Severe

4

Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
As per Recommendations 1 e 4, clinical examination
and bedside testing should be the ﬁrst line testing undertaken to diagnose the presence of PAD. When
revascularisation is being considered further anatomical information on the arteries of the lower limb
should be obtained to assess the presence, severity,
and distribution of arterial stenoses or occlusions. In
this process, adequate imaging of the tibial and pedal
vessels is of critical importance, particularly in planning

IDSA ¼ The Infectious Diseases Society of America; IWGDF ¼ International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot.

1116

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

below knee and foot arteries.20 In many centres DSA is
typically used when MRA or CTA are not available, fail
to adequately deﬁne the arterial anatomy, or when
an endovascular intervention is planned. Arterial imaging should allow complete anatomical staging from
aorta to foot using, for example, TASC for aorto-iliac
disease and the Global Anatomic Staging System
(GLASS), described in the GVG, for infrainguinal and
pedal disease.20

people with end stage renal disease, who have a 5%
peri-operative mortality rate, 40% one year mortality
rate, and one year limb salvage rate of around 70%.101
People with signs of ischaemia, e.g., as deﬁned by WIfI
and the GVG; absent pulses and monophasic or absent
pedal Doppler waveforms, ankle pressure < 100 mmHg
or toe pressure < 60 mmHg, are very likely to have significant PAD that could impact wound healing potential
and amputation risk.20,84 The certainty of evidence in
the systematic review on the effects of revascularisation
on wound healing and amputation risk was judged to
be very low, as many important factors that can affect
outcomes were not reported, such as the availability of
vein conduit, wound care, ofﬂoading, and sufﬁcient
anatomical details about the extent and severity of the
lesions treated. Factors that inﬂuence the decision to
revascularise include the degree of limb threat (e.g.,
WIfI classiﬁcation), the amount of tissue loss, presence
of infection, co-morbidities, feasibility of the different
revascularisation options, and their risks.
As discussed in other parts of the IWGDF guidelines,
restoration of perfusion in the foot is only part of the
treatment required to optimise wound healing and to
prevent or limit tissue loss, which should be provided
by a multidisciplinary team.43 Any revascularisation procedure should be part of a comprehensive care plan
that addresses other important issues including: prompt
treatment of concurrent infection, regular wound
debridement, biomechanical ofﬂoading, control of blood
glucose, assessment and improvement of nutritional status, as well as treatment of oedema and co-morbidities.43 The decision to perform a revascularisation
procedure and which procedure is preferred depends
therefore on several factors and in each individual the
balance should be made between expected beneﬁts,
potential risks, harms and costs, in a shared decision
making process. For these reasons a Best Practice
Recommendation was made. The care of persons with
a DFU is frequently managed by healthcare professionals
who are not speciﬁcally trained in the treatment of PAD.
Care for people with PAD is differently organised in many
countries, with different medical disciplines involved,

Recommendation 12
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, a foot
ulcer, and clinical ﬁndings of ischaemia, a revascularisation
procedure should be considered. Findings of ischaemia
include absent pulses, monophasic or absent pedal Doppler
waveforms, ankle pressure < 100 mmHg or toe pressure < 60
mmHg. Consult a vascular specialist unless major amputation
is considered medically urgent.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
The natural history of people with diabetes, PAD, and a
DFU or gangrene remains poorly deﬁned, but in two
studies reporting the outcomes of participants with diabetes and limb ischaemia who were not revascularised,
the limb salvage rate was around 50% at one year.73,100
Analysis of the evidence for revascularisation suggests
that revascularisation in appropriately selected people
with diabetes and haemodynamically signiﬁcant PAD,
can improve perfusion, expedite wound healing, and
reduce major limb amputations.6 After a revascularisation procedure, most studies report limb salvage rates
of 80 e 85% and ulcer healing in > 60% at 12 months.101
On the other hand, performing a revascularisation is not
without risks. As summarised in the systematic review
performed by the IWGDF in 2019,101 the peri-operative
or 30 day mortality rate was around 2% in people with
diabetes undergoing either endovascular or surgical
revascularisation.101 The highest risk group includes

Table 4. Wound Ischaemia foot Infection Classiﬁcation System: estimated risk of amputation at one year adapted from
Mills et al. (reference 84)
Ischaemia e 0

Ischaemia e 1

Ischaemia e 2

Ischaemia e 3

W-0

VL

VL

L

M

VL

L

M

H

L

L

M

H

L

M

M

W-1

VL

VL

L

M

VL

L

M

H

L

M

H

H

M

M

H

H

W-2

L

L

M

H

M

M

H

H

M

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

W-3

M

M

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

VL ¼ Very Low ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 1
L ¼ Low ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 2
M ¼ Moderate ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 3
H ¼ High ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 4

H

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1117

Volume 78, Number 5

Table 5. Wound Ischaemia foot Infection Classiﬁcation System: estimated likelihood of beneﬁt of or requirement for
revascularisation adapted from Mills et al. (reference 84)
Ischaemia e 0

Ischaemia e 1

Ischaemia e 2

Ischaemia e 3

W-0

VL

VL

VL

VL

VL

L

L

M

L

L

M

M

M

H

H

H

W-1

VL

VL

VL

VL

L

M

M

M

M

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

W-2

VL

VL

VL

VL

M

M

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

W-3

VL

VL

VL

VL

M

M

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

H

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

fI-0

fI-1

fI-2

fI-3

VL ¼ Very Low ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 1
L ¼ Low ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 2
M ¼ Moderate ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 3
H ¼ High ¼ Class or Clinical Stage 4

such as vascular surgeons, angiologists, interventional radiologists, nephrologists, cardiac surgeons, and cardiologists. For this reason, the term vascular specialist
consultation is used in the recommendation, but whatever the organisation of care all people with diabetes
and PAD should have access to both bypass surgery
and endovascular procedures.

Recommendation 14
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer with infection or gangrene involving any portion of the
foot, urgently consult a vascular specialist in order to determine the timing of a drainage procedure and a revascularisation procedure.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement
Recommendation 13
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, a foot
ulcer, and severe ischaemia i.e., an ankle brachial index < 0.4,
ankle pressure < 50 mmHg, toe pressure < 30 mmHg or
transcutaneous oxygen pressure < 30 mmHg or monophasic
or absent pedal Doppler waveforms, urgently consult a
vascular specialist regarding possible revascularisation.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
Severe ischaemia is deﬁned in the GVG as an ABI <
0.4, AP pressure < 50 mmHg, TP < 30 mmHg or
TcPO2 < 30 mmHg or monophasic or absent pedal
Doppler waveforms.20,84 Such perfusion deﬁcits are,
as also stated in the GVG, an indication for revascularisation, unless contraindicated or technically not
possible. There is retrospective evidence demonstrating that a delay in revascularisation of more than
two weeks in people with diabetes results in increased
risk of limb loss.102 This is supported by observational
research demonstrating that a shorter time to revascularisation (< 8 weeks) is associated with a higher probability of DFU healing and lower likelihood of limb
loss.74 As shorter time to revascularisation was associated with higher probability of DFU healing and lower
likelihood of limb loss, a Best Practice Statement supporting urgent referral for vascular consultation in people with DFU and evidence of severe ischaemia was
made (Fig. 1).

Rationale
In the presence of PAD and infection or gangrene, an
urgent revascularisation should be considered. In the
prospective Eurodiale study, participants with the combination of a foot infection and PAD had a one year major amputation rate as high as 44%.103 In addition,
participants with higher WIfI infection grade had higher
risk of amputation in several observational studies, as
summarised in the IWGDF systematic review on Classiﬁcation Systems (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1
002/dmrr.3645).38 Delay in treatment can lead to rapid
tissue destruction and life threatening sepsis as
described in the IWGDF/IDSA Guidelines on Management of Diabetic Foot Infections.104 In a person with a
foot abscess or infection of a deep foot compartment
that needs immediate drainage, or where there is
gangrene that must be removed to control the infection,
immediate surgery should be considered ﬁrst.104 This
should be accompanied by broad spectrum antibiotic
therapy, which is subsequently tailored according to tissue culture results, as “time is tissue” in these people.
Once the sepsis is controlled and the person is stabilised,
evaluation of the arterial tree should lead to consideration for prompt revascularisation (i.e., within a few
days) in people with substantial perfusion deﬁcits. Once
blood ﬂow is improved and infection is controlled, a
deﬁnitive operation may be required to create a functional foot, which may require soft tissue and bone

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1118

November 2023

Figure 1. Assessment and management pathway for a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer with ﬁndings of ischaemia, infection, or gangrene. Yellow ¼ Conditional Recommendation; green ¼ Strong
Recommendation; gray ¼ Best Practice Recommendation; ABI ¼ ankle brachial index; IWGDF ¼ International
Working Group on the Diabetic Foot; TBI ¼ toe brachial index; TP ¼ toe pressure; PAD ¼ peripheral artery disease;
WIfI ¼ Wound Ischaemia foot Infection classiﬁcation system

reconstruction.105 Due to the risk of amputation in this
clinical scenario, the likelihood that the person will value
avoidance of amputation, and the need for appropriate
prioritisation of intervention strategies to achieve this,
the Writing Committee formulated a Best Practice
Statement.

Recommendation 15
In a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer, when the wound
deteriorates or fails to signiﬁcantly improve (e.g., a less than
50% reduction in wound area within four weeks) despite
appropriate infection and glucose control, wound care, and
ofﬂoading, reassess the vascular status and consult with a
vascular specialist regarding possible revascularisation.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

presentation is predictive of healing at 12 weeks.106e109
This has been shown to be the case independent of
the ulcer size at baseline and supports review of treatment protocols where adequate wound reduction is
not being achieved in the four week timeframe. Presence of suspected CLTI or a DFU that is failing to
adequately heal despite best practice care requires
prompt consultation with a vascular specialist and
assessment of whether a revascularisation procedure is
indicated. There is no direct evidence supporting the
recommendation which is a pragmatic statement based
on indirect evidence and expert opinion. Given the risk of
poor outcomes when PAD is left untreated in a person
with a poorly healing ulcer, a Best Practice Statement
has been made.

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
Multiple factors may contribute to delayed or nonhealing of DFU, including presence of infection, wound
size and depth, elevated foot pressures at the wound
site, and inadequate wound care. A number of studies
have demonstrated that a reduction in percentage of
wound area of more than 50% by four weeks after

Recommendation 16
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene, avoid revascularisation when the risk
ebeneﬁt ratio for the probability of success of the intervention
is clearly unfavourable.
Grade
Best Practice Statement

Certainty of evidence

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1119

Volume 78, Number 5

Rationale
Revascularisation should not be performed if there is
no realistic chance of wound healing, when major
amputation is inevitable, a functional foot is unlikely
to be achieved, or when life expectancy is short and
there is unlikely to be beneﬁt to the person. The
Writing Committee considered that in such persons
any revascularisation procedure is unlikely to be of
beneﬁt to the person and may cause harm. Many
affected individuals pose high peri-procedural risk
because of comorbidities. In particular, the following
people may not be suitable for revascularisation: those
who are very frail, have short life expectancy, have
poor functional status, are bed bound, and or have a
large area of tissue destruction that renders the foot
functionally unsalvageable and those who cannot realistically be expected to mobilise following revascularisation. There are occasional situations where an
arterial inﬂow procedure is performed to improve
the likelihood of healing of a major limb amputation
(below or above knee).
There is evidence from several observational studies
of a 50% healing rate for ischaemic DFU in people
with diabetes unsuitable for revascularisation and this
should also be considered in determining choice of
care.74,100 The decision to proceed to primary amputation, or to adopt a palliative approach, should be made
in conjunction with the person and the multidisciplinary team110 including a vascular specialist unless
an emergency procedure is indicated as discussed
earlier. The Writing Committee considered that in
these circumstances where healing is improbable a
person is unlikely to value the outcomes from revascularisation over no revascularisation. Similarly in such circumstances the beneﬁt of revascularisation will not
outweigh the potential harms.
Clinical question
In people with diabetes, PAD, and either a foot ulcer or
gangrene, how does endovascular revascularisation
compare with open or hybrid revascularisation?

Recommendation 17
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene who has an adequate single segment
saphenous vein in whom infrainguinal revascularisation is
indicated and who is suitable for either approach, consider
bypass in preference to endovascular therapy.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Moderate

Recommendation 18
A person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease (PAD) and a
foot ulcer or gangrene, should be treated in a centre with
expertise in, or rapid access to, endovascular and surgical
bypass revascularisation. In this setting, consider making
treatment decisions based on the risk to and preference of
the individual, limb threat severity, anatomical distribution of
PAD, and the availability of autogenous vein.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
Once the decision to revascularise has been made, the
next decision is whether an endovascular, an open (i.e.,
bypass or endarterectomy) procedure, or a combination
of both (i.e., hybrid procedure) should be performed.
Recommendation 18 highlights the complementary
role of open and endovascular techniques in contemporary vascular practice. In particular, endovascular techniques have largely replaced open surgery in the
management of aorto-iliac disease and also allow treatment of foot and pedal arch disease.
The majority of studies identiﬁed in the systematic review on endovascular and bypass surgical outcomes
were observational and retrospective case series, with a
high risk of bias.7 The BEST CLI trial was a large randomised clinical trial with low risk of bias comparing an
endovascular ﬁrst with a surgical ﬁrst approach. People
with CLTI who were deemed appropriate for revascularisation for infrainguinal arterial occlusive disease were
included.111 The primary outcome was above ankle
amputation of the index limb or a major reintervention in the index limb (new bypass, vein graft
interposition revision, thrombectomy or thrombolysis)
or death. It was designed in two parallel cohort trials:
Cohort 1 people who had an adequate single segment
great saphenous vein (GSV) available for use as a bypass
conduit, and Cohort 2 people without an adequate single segment GSV who required an alternate conduit.
Treatment with a GSV bypass ﬁrst approach was superior
to endovascular therapy ﬁrst for the primary outcome
(hazard ratio [HR], 0.68; 95% conﬁdence interval [CI]
0.59 e 0.79; p < .001). In Cohort 2 the primary outcomes
were similar between the two groups. Subgroup analysis
of people in Cohort 1 favoured surgery in people with diabetes (HR 0.72; CI 0.61 e 0.86) with beneﬁt comparable
with those without diabetes (HR 0.57; CI 0.41 e 0.78). At
the time of writing this guideline, further results of this
study have not been published. Of note, whole group
data for Cohort 1 demonstrated a higher rate of major
amputation in those undergoing an endovascular

1120

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

procedure compared with those having surgery (Surgery:
74/709 [10.4%] Endovascular: 106/711 [14.9%]). Further
subanalysis may demonstrate this is relevant to those
with diabetes and therefore this may affect an individual’s preference for intervention. From the perspective
of the person receiving treatment, the difference in
length of hospital stay should be taken into account,
which in the systematic review was longer in the bypass
publications than in endovascular publications. In addition, people might prefer to have an endovascular
approach given the more invasive approach of bypass
surgery.
Considering costs, there are probably no major differences except the length of hospital stay; however, this
is yet to be determined and may be an additional
outcome of the BEST-CLI study. Subsequent analyses
are also awaited to shed more light on the anatomical
patterns and extent of disease treated, as well as which
patterns of disease were not well represented or
excluded. As BEST-CLI is currently the only randomised
controlled trial (RCT) in this area, the certainty of the evidence for the recommendation was moderate. Given
the important differences in outcomes in the BEST-CLI
trial it is recommended to consider bypass surgery as
the ﬁrst option in people with a suitable saphenous
vein. It is acknowledged that this recommendation
may lead to some major changes in the policy of the
many centres, which currently have an endovascular ﬁrst
approach for everyone.
The recommendation may not be feasible in the short
term in all countries due to the lack of equipment and
expertise. Finally, it should be noted that in the BESTCLI study, endovascular procedures could be performed
in the iliac and common femoral artery to ensure
optimal inﬂow into the bypass, emphasising that a
centre treating PAD in people with a DFU should have
the expertise to perform both endovascular and bypass
procedures. In addition, in some centres the immediate
availability of an endovascular approach might be a
reason to opt for this treatment when an urgent revascularisation is needed or when the surgical risk is deemed
too high. For these reasons and the moderate certainty
of the evidence a Conditional Recommendation was
made.
In people with diabetes in whom a revascularisation is
considered but who do not have a suitable single
segment GSV for bypass surgery, the results in BEST-CLI
were similar for endovascular and surgical bypass. This
statement is in line with the results of the systematic review, in which the non-randomised and observational
studies showed that the evidence was inadequate to
establish whether an endovascular, open, or hybrid revascularisation technique is superior. Each of these techniques has its advantages and disadvantages. A
successful distal venous bypass can result in a marked

increase of blood ﬂow to the foot, but general, spinal,
or epidural anaesthesia is usually necessary and a suitable vein, as a bypass conduit, should be present, as in
the BEST-CLI trial. An endovascular procedure has
several logistical advantages, but sometimes, very complex interventions are necessary to obtain adequate
blood ﬂow in the foot and a failed endovascular intervention may lead to worse outcomes when an open procedure is performed subsequently.112 Over the past few
decades, there have been signiﬁcant advances in endovascular techniques; however, parallel to this, there
have been improvements in anaesthesia and perioperative care that have helped improve surgical outcomes. As there is no one size ﬁts all approach to treatment for people with diabetes, PAD, and foot
ulceration or gangrene, it is important that a treating
centre has the expertise and facilities to provide a range
of treatment options with availability of both endovascular and open techniques. It is recommended that for
each person requiring lower limb revascularisation, all
revascularisation techniques should be considered
(Fig. 2).
Clinical question
In people with diabetes, PAD, and either a foot ulcer or
gangrene, how does direct angiosome revascularisation
compare with indirect angiosome revascularisation?

Recommendation 19
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene, revascularisation procedures should aim to
restore in line blood ﬂow to at least one of the foot arteries.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
In people with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene
in whom revascularisation is required, optimising
blood ﬂow to the foot is important to maximise the
chance of healing the foot and avoiding amputation.
Incomplete revascularisation (including treating inﬂow
disease when distal disease is present or bypassing into
blind segment arteries with no runoff), can result in
delayed or non-wound healing and a substantial risk of
amputation.
Bypass surgery is ideally performed to an outﬂow vessel
that runs into the foot. However, bypasses performed to
the peroneal artery (which rely on collateralisation to
the foot) are most effective when there is good collateralisation to the foot and a patent pedal arch is present.99
Pedal arch patency also seems to be associated with
improved wound healing and reduced risk of major
amputation.113

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1121

Volume 78, Number 5

Recommendation 20
In a person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and a foot
ulcer or gangrene undergoing an endovascular procedure,
consider targeting the artery on angiography that supplies
the anatomical region of the ulcer, when possible or practical.
Grade
Conditional

Certainty of evidence
Very low

Rationale
Angiosomes are three dimensional regions of tissue
and skin supplied by a source artery. The six angiosomes
of the foot and ankle are supplied by the posterior tibial
artery (n ¼ 3), peroneal artery (n ¼ 2), and anterior tibial
artery (n ¼ 1) (Fig. 3). Communications between angiosomes include direct arterial to arterial connections, as
well
as
choke
vessels
which
link
adjacent
angiosomes.113e115 The effect or inﬂuence of angiosome
based revascularisation on wound healing and prevention of amputation (major and minor) in the management of diabetes related foot complications remains
controversial.
Direct revascularisation involves revascularisation of the
tibial artery supplying the angiosome in which the tissue
loss has occurred. The alternative to this is indirect revascularisation where the tibial artery treated is the artery in
which successful in line ﬂow to the foot is most likely to
be achieved by endovascular techniques or is deemed
the best tibial outﬂow vessel for anastomosis in bypass
surgery but does not directly supply the affected area
of tissue loss. The systematic review found that open

vascular reconstruction procedures were equally effective whether direct or indirect revascularisation to the
affected foot angiosome was performed.7
In addition, healing and amputation outcomes for
direct and indirect endovascular revascularisation show
that if direct revascularisation is possible, DFU healing
time and major amputation may be reduced compared
with indirect revascularisation. There is inadequate evidence to determine whether direct revascularisation is
superior to indirect revascularisation to prevent minor
amputation.116 Indirect revascularisation with collaterals
was associated with wound healing and limb salvage
outcomes which were similar to direct revascularisation
outcomes and notably better than the indirect revascularisation without collateral cohorts.117e121
The majority of studies included in the systematic review used endovascular procedures with data probably
favouring direct revascularisation. For bypass procedures
there was little difference in healing and amputation
outcomes at 12 months between direct and indirect
revascularisation.121e124 These studies had a high risk of
bias, lacked randomisation (and it is unlikely that this
will ever be possible), and were mostly retrospective.
Baseline variables such as wound and foot staging (e.g.,
by WIfI) and extent of tissue loss were reported infrequently. Heterogeneity of the included studies was
found to be high, preventing meta-analysis of data. This
is likely to be due to high variability in participants and
wound stage (extent of tissue loss, severity of ischaemia,
presence of infection). Comparison of primary outcomes
(healing and amputation) or adverse events is therefore
problematic. Based on the available data it appears

Figure 2. Approach to vascular intervention for a person with diabetes and a foot ulcer or gangrene. Yellow ¼
Conditional Recommendation; gray ¼ Best Practice Recommendation; PAD ¼ peripheral artery disease; CT ¼
computed tomography; GSV ¼ great saphenous vein; MR ¼ magnetic resonance; DS ¼ digital subtraction.

1122

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

Figure 3. Angiosome distribution in the lower leg and foot.

direct revascularisation may have improved outcomes
and therefore it was considered that this procedure is
likely to be preferred by people receiving treatment to
improve healing and prevent amputation. However, the
Writing Committee considered there is likely to be
important variability in patient values due to the lack of
clear beneﬁt of one approach over the other.
Factors such as the severity of ischaemia and tissue loss
(e.g., WIfI staging) and patient suitability for the procedure and presence of comorbidities, as well as the availability of expertise and costs of the procedures (which
may vary between locations and countries) drives decision making in relation to the type of procedure considered appropriate with these factors also impacting.
Several studies have noted that only a minority of foot
and ankle wounds in their series corresponded to one
angiosome. Kret et al.125 found that only 36% of wounds
in their series corresponded to a single distinct angiosome. Similarly, Aerden et al.126 found it difﬁcult to allocate people to direct revascularisation versus indirect
revascularisation due to the presence of multiple
wounds and large wounds that had more than one
angiosome supplying them. In such cases it is the
opinion of the Writing Committee that the best quality
artery should preferentially be targeted. Many clinicians

will consider attempting to treat the second vessel supplying the wound as well, although there is a lack of evidence to support this approach.7
Clinical question
In people with DFU, do revascularisation perfusion outcomes predict healing, major amputation, or the need
for further revascularisation?

Recommendation 21
In a person with diabetes and either a foot ulcer or gangrene
who has undergone revascularisation, objectively assess adequacy of perfusion e.g., using non-invasive bedside testing.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
There are few available data examining the predictive
capacity of post-revascularisation perfusion measures
for healing or amputation outcomes or for the need for
further revascularisation in people with diabetes. However, adequate perfusion is essential for wound healing and

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1123

Volume 78, Number 5

Recommendation 22
A person with diabetes, peripheral artery disease, and either a
foot ulcer or gangrene should be treated by a multidisciplinary team as part of a comprehensive care plan.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

clinical examination is often too unreliable. Diabetes
related PAD is characterised by atherosclerotic plaque
formation that is long and diffuse in nature and more
likely to involve distal vascular beds. Frequently, long
term patency is not achieved in endovascular treatment
of tibial lesions.127
Regular assessment of perfusion post-revascularisation
should therefore be undertaken due to the risk of occlusion and restenosis after intervention. This should be conducted in combination with regular assessment of the
foot lesion to determine whether healing is indeed taking place. It is recommended that revascularisation
should aim to improve perfusion to the foot as much
as possible, which will vary according to the individual.
Due to the lack of data available determining the optimum time frame for follow up and the likelihood that
this may vary depending on the testing methods being
used, a Best Practice Statement based on indirect evidence and expert opinion has been made.
Rationale
As discussed in several parts of this guideline and in
other IWGDF guidelines on the diagnosis and management of DFU, restoration of perfusion in the foot is only
part of the treatment, which should be provided by a
multidisciplinary care team.43 Lack of access to specialist
care is associated with worse foot outcomes. In rural and
remote locations and areas where specialist access is
challenging, referral pathways that address care access
(e.g., through virtual referral pathways) are essential to
establish to provide multidisciplinary care.128 Any revascularisation procedure should therefore be part of a
comprehensive care plan that addresses other important
issues including: prompt treatment of concurrent infection, regular wound debridement, biomechanical offloading, control of blood glucose, cardiovascular risk
reduction, and treatment of co-morbidities.128 Moreover,
once the ulcer has healed the risk of recurrence is up to
50% over ﬁve years in several studies so preventive measures need to be taken and many people need long term
follow up by a dedicated foot complication prevention
team.26
Clinical question
In a person with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer, which
medical treatments should be advised to prevent major

adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), major adverse
limb events (MALE), and death?
MACE is deﬁned as a composite of non-fatal stroke,
non-fatal myocardial infarction, and cardiovascular
death.
d MALE is deﬁned as the development of severe lower
leg ischaemia leading to a vascular intervention or a
major lower leg amputation.
d These deﬁnitions vary slightly between studies.
d

People with diabetes and PAD (with or without a foot
ulcer) are at a very high cardiovascular risk. Cardiovascular risk factor goals should always be individualised, taking life expectancy, expected beneﬁt, treatment
burden, potential drug interactions, and undesirable
treatment effects into account. While taking these considerations into account, the Writing Committee suggests the following treatment targets to reduce the
risk of future major adverse limb and cardiovascular
events.

Recommendation 23
In a person with diabetes and peripheral artery disease, the
following target levels should be:

HbA1c < 8% (< 64 mmol/mol), but higher target HbA1c
value may be necessary depending on the risk of severe
hypoglycaemia.
Blood pressure < 140/90 mmHg but higher target levels
may be necessary depending on the risk of orthostatic
hypotension and other side effects.
Low density lipoprotein target of < 1.8 mmol/L (< 70 mg/
dL) and reduced by at least 50% of baseline. If high intensity statin therapy (with or without ezetimibe) is
tolerated, target levels < 1.4 mmol/L (55 mg/dL) are
recommended.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Recommendation 24
In a person with diabetes and symptomatic peripheral artery
disease:

treatment with single antiplatelet therapy should be
used,
treatment with clopidogrel should be considered as ﬁrst
choice in preference to aspirin,
combination therapy with aspirin (75 mg to 100 mg once
daily) plus low dose rivaroxaban (2.5 mg twice daily)
should be considered for people without a high bleeding
risk.
Grade
Best Practice Statement

Certainty of evidence

1124

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023

Recommendation 25
In a person with type 2 diabetes and peripheral artery disease:

with an eGFR > 30 mL/min/1.73m2, a sodium glucose
cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitor or a glucagon like
peptide 1 receptor agonist with demonstrated cardiovascular disease beneﬁt should be considered, irrespective of the blood glucose level.
SGLT-2 inhibitors should not be started in drug naïve
people with a diabetes related foot ulcer or gangrene
and temporary discontinuation should be considered in
people already using these drugs, until the affected foot
is healed.
Grade

Certainty of evidence

Best Practice Statement

Rationale
The Writing Committee decided to not write their own
guidelines on pharmacological interventions in people
with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer or gangrene in order
to reduce cardiovascular risk or to prevent major limb
events as deﬁned above. There are already a number of
guidelines on cardiovascular risk prevention in people
with diabetes and cardiovascular disease, and thus
another guideline would have little added value. It was
decided to base the Best Practice Statements on the
GVG for CLTI produced by the ESVS, SVS, and World
Federation of Vascular Societies (WFVS),20 as these
address the speciﬁc population of people with CLTI.
However, it was also felt that some of the recommendations of the CLTI guidelines should be adapted to the
speciﬁc population of people with diabetes. When it
was felt applicable, the guidelines of the American Diabetes Association (ADA), the European Association for
the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and other guidelines on peripheral artery disease (European Society of Cardiology
[ESC]-ESVS, European Society of Vascular Medicine
[ESVM], and ESC-EASD, ESC- European Atherosclerosis
Society [EAS]) were used.16e19,22,23,129
PAD runs a more aggressive course in those with diabetes mellitus compared with those without diabetes,
with an elevated risk of lower leg amputation. In addition, the combination of diabetes and PAD is associated
with a high risk of developing complications in other
vascular beds. As discussed previously, persons with an
ischaemic diabetes related foot ulcer have an overall
ﬁve year cardiovascular mortality of around 50%.130
Therefore, according to the international guidelines of
several major vascular and diabetes associations, these
individuals should be considered as having a very high
cardiovascular risk and should be treated as such. On
the other hand, they usually have, in addition to peripheral neuropathy, other diabetes related complications
as well as several co-morbidities, resulting in a high

burden of diseases and multiple medications.30 Many
affected persons are elderly, frail, and are living in vulnerable socio-economic circumstances with a low quality of
life.131,132 It is therefore essential that cardiovascular risk
factor management in these people should be individualised, tailored, and should be part of a shared decision
making process, taking life expectancy, diabetes related
complications and co-morbidities, expected beneﬁt,
treatment burden, drug interactions, and undesirable
treatment effects into account. This care should be provided by healthcare worker(s) with sufﬁcient expertise
in treating cardiovascular risk factors and glycaemia,
preferably by person(s) who are part of the multidisciplinary team for diabetes related foot care.
Glycaemic goals. As stated in the ADA and ESC-EASD
guidelines, near normal glycaemia with HbA1c level
below 7.0% (53 mmol/mol) will decrease microvascular
complications.18,22 Tighter glucose control initiated early
in the course of diabetes in younger individuals leads to a
reduction in macrovascular complications, i.e., cardiovascular outcomes, over a 20 year timescale. Such
glucose control can have beneﬁcial effects on microvascular complications in a shorter period of time. However,
when blood glucose lowering agents are used that have
the risk of severe hypoglycaemia, this can increase the
risk of cardiovascular events and death, as detailed in the
ADA and ESC-EASD guidelines.18,129 As many people with
a DFU and PAD also have atherosclerotic disease in other
vascular beds, tight glucose control can be harmful. The
risk of hypoglycaemia is markedly lower when people are
only treated with metformin, a sodium glucose
cotransporter-2 inhibitor or a glucagon like peptide 1
receptor agonist. Tight glucose control is often not indicated in people with PAD and a DFU due to the risk of
hypoglycaemia outweighing the potential beneﬁt. The
ADA recommends in the 2022 Standards of Care to aim
for an HbA1c < 8% (< 64 mmol/mol) in such persons and
the ESC-EASD 2019 guideline for levels below 8 e 9%
(< 64 e 75 mmol/l).18,129 However, the target chosen will
depend on factors such as age, duration of diabetes,
complications, co-morbidities, and risk of hypoglycaemia. These target HbA1c levels are higher than the
level formulated in the GVG for CLTI (< 7.0%, 53 mmol/
mol), but as discussed above it is concluded that the risk
of such tight blood glucose control is too high in this
speciﬁc population.
Blood pressure goals. The ESC-EASD guidelines state
that RCTs have demonstrated the beneﬁt (reduction of
stroke, coronary events, and kidney disease) of lowering
systolic BP to < 140 mmHg and diastolic BP to < 90
mmHg.18 Usually, multiple drugs are necessary to reach
these levels in people with diabetes. In younger people
(e.g., younger than 65 years) levels below 130/80 mmHg
can be considered if there are no contraindications for
such tight blood pressure control and the risk of orthostatic hypotension is low. Both the ADA and ESC-EASD

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1125

Volume 78, Number 5

stress the importance of individualised treatment as
overly aggressive blood pressure lowering is not without
risk in the usually elderly with a DFU and those with
multiple diabetes related complications and comorbidities. Therefore, in these people blood
pressures < 140/90 mmHg are recommended, but in
younger individuals (e.g., < 65 years) and with a small risk
of adverse effects of the treatment, lower target levels
might be considered.
Lipid goals. The ADA and EASD guidelines recommend in persons with diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease an LDL target of < 1.8 mmol/L (70
mmol/L).21 In line with the lower the better approach,
recent trials suggest that lower levels of LDL of < 1.4
mmol/L (55 mg/dL) can be beneﬁcial in persons with a
very high cardiovascular risk. Therefore, the recent ESCEASD and ESC-EAS guidelines recommend that such
very low LDL levels should be the target in these individuals.18,19 In those with recurrent events within two
years, even LDL levels < 1.0 mmol/L (40 mg/dL) are suggested as target in ESC-EAS guidelines.19 With statin
therapy such as rosuvastatin 20 e 40 mg or atorvastatin
40 e 80 mg, marked reductions of LDL cholesterol can
be achieved if these relatively simple treatments are
tolerated. When the target is not reached ezetimibe can
be added, which is available in combination tablets with
both statins. These treatments have limited side effects
in most (but not all) people and are relatively inexpensive. According to the recent ESC-EASD and ESC-EAS
guidelines, an LDL level below 1.0 mmol/L (40 mg/dL)
can be the target in people with recurrent cardiovascular
events (within two years), based on a limited number of
RCTs in which relatively few participants with CLTI and
diabetes were included. To reach the aforementioned
very low LDL levels, additional treatment with a PCSK9
inhibitor will be necessary in a proportion of people.
PCSK9 inhibitors are monoclonal antibodies that have
limited side effects but have the drawback of high costs,
parenteral administration, and at present there is very
limited evidence of the cost effectiveness of PCSK9 inhibitors in people with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer or
gangrene. In addition, the use of these expensive drugs is
a problem for many countries in the world, and for these
reasons a recommendation on LDL level below 1.0 mmol/
L (40 mg/dL) for this speciﬁc population was not
included, but it is acknowledged that in several countries
PCSK9 inhibitors are used to reach these goals in those
with recurrent cardiovascular events.
In line with the other cardiovascular risk reduction interventions in these usually frail, multimorbid individuals,
treatment and its goals should be based on shared decision making and should be individualised after careful
weighting of the beneﬁts, harms, and costs. The LDL
(and other) treatment targets in the recommendation
should not be interpreted as absolute goals but more
as desired goals. Even if the goal is only partially met, it

can result in a marked reduction in cardiovascular events
in these very high risk people. Although very low LDL
levels are perhaps not achievable in all, LDL reductions
of up to 50% can be achieved in many with the aforementioned potent statins (and ezetimibe), with marked
reduction in cardiovascular risk.16
Additional therapies
Antithrombotic therapy. The subsequent advice on
antiplatelet therapy is in line with the recent ESVS antithrombotic guidelines.137 All guidelines strongly recommend treatment with a single antiplatelet agent in
persons with symptomatic cardiovascular disease, or
more speciﬁcally chronic limb threatening ischaemia
(CLTI). These drugs reduce the risk of cardiovascular
events; for the increased risk of gastric bleeding in aspirin
treated individuals, a proton pump inhibitor as additional treatment should be considered. There is less
consensus regarding which drug to choose, clopidogrel
or aspirin. The ADA and ESC-EASD guideline advises
aspirin as ﬁrst choice in persons with diabetes and a
cardiovascular event but did not specify for the presence
of PAD.18,21 In the recent ESVM, ESC-ESVS, and GVG
guidelines, clopidogrel is considered as the antiplatelet
agent of choice in those with PAD. This recommendation
is in particular based on The Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in
Patients at Risk for Ischaemic Events (CAPRIE) trial, in
which clopidogrel was more effective in reducing cardiovascular risk without an increased risk of bleeding.133
It should be noted that only a subset of participants in
this trial had PAD, of which only 21% had diabetes. Also, a
meta-analysis did not show any beneﬁt from aspirin for
those with PAD.134 A post hoc subanalysis of the CAPRIE
trial showed that clopidogrel was superior to aspirin in
reducing recurrent ischaemic events in those with diabetes.135 The relative risk reduction was comparable with
those without diabetes, but due to the greater number
of events among people with diabetes, the absolute risk
reduction was even larger. Given the potential beneﬁt, it
is suggested in a Conditional Recommendation that
clopidogrel should be considered as ﬁrst choice, in line
with the aforementioned guidelines.
As an additional alternative to single antiplatelet therapy, combination therapy with aspirin (100 mg once
daily) plus low dose rivaroxaban (2.5 mg twice daily)
should be considered for those with low bleeding risk
to prevent cardiovascular events as well as reduce extremity ischaemic events in those with CLTI, as suggested
by the GVG, ESVM, and ESC-EASD guidelines and the
2023 ADA Standards of Care.16,20,23,129 This suggestion is
based on the COMPASS trial in which this combination
therapy was more effective than aspirin but was also
associated with an increased risk of clinically relevant
bleeding, mostly gastrointestinal.136 In this trial approximately 38% had diabetes mellitus and the beneﬁt of
the combination therapy seemed similar in those with

1126

Fitridge et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
November 2023

and without diabetes. Given this limited evidence base
and the added treatment burden for this frequently
vulnerable cohort, a Best Practice Statement in line
with the ESVS and ADA recommendations was
made.129,137 It should be noted that in the COMPASS trial
in addition to a high bleeding risk of rivaroxaban, other
exclusion criteria included end stage renal disease, severe heart failure, recent stroke, history of haemorrhagic
or lacunar stroke, and poor life expectancy.138 A network
meta-analysis showed no superiority for aspirin with
rivaroxaban over clopidogrel alone for the primary composite endpoint in the chronic PAD subgroups of CAPRIE
and COMPASS.139 Therefore in the absence of a RCT
directly comparing the two, both clopidogrel alone and
aspirin with rivaroxaban are reasonable choices for secondary cardiovascular prevention for patients with
chronic symptomatic PAD, but the risk of bleeding and
contraindications should be taken into account when
discussing the options with the patient.137 The ESVS
antithrombotic guidelines recommend that those not
at high risk of bleeding who undergo an endovascular
intervention for lower extremity PAD may be considered
for a one to six month course of dual antiplatelet therapy
(aspirin plus clopidogrel) to reduce the risk of MACE and
MALE followed by single antiplatelet therapy.137 Similarly,
those undergoing endovascular intervention who are not
at high risk of bleeding should be considered for aspirin
(75 e 100 mg daily) and low dose rivaroxaban (2.5 mg
twice daily) to reduce the risk of MACE and MALE.137,140
If the bleeding risk is considered to be high, single antiplatelet therapy should be used post-intervention. If clopidogrel is used in addition to aspirin and low dose
rivaroxaban after endovascular intervention, clopidogrel
should only be used for < 30 days as with longer term
use the bleeding risk is likely to outweigh the
beneﬁt.137,141
The ESVS antithrombotic guidelines recommend that
those undergoing infrainguinal endarterectomy or bypass
surgery who are not at high risk of bleeding should be
considered for aspirin (75 e 100 mg daily) and low dose
rivaroxaban (2.5 mg twice daily) to reduce the risk of
MACE and MALE. Those persons undergoing infrainguinal
bypass surgery with autogenous vein who are not at high
bleeding risk may be considered for treatment with
vitamin K antagonist to improve graft patency.137,142
Those undergoing infrainguinal bypass with a prosthetic graft may be considered for single antiplatelet
therapy. Persons at high risk of bleeding undergoing
lower extremity bypass surgery using an autogenous or
prosthetic conduit may be considered for single antiplatelet therapy to improve graft patency.137
Arterial duplex scanning post-autologous vein bypass
surgery is generally advised post-procedure to detect
graft stenoses. The beneﬁts of post-procedure surveillance following endovascular intervention remain uncertain; following local protocols is suggested.

Glucose lowering therapies. In recent years it has
become increasingly clear that several sodium glucose
cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors and glucagon like
peptide 1 receptor (GLP-1) agonists, which were originally
developed to lower blood glucose levels, can also have
beneﬁcial cardiovascular effects in persons with type 2
diabetes.21 These effects are independent of their blood
glucose lowering effect. To what extent this beneﬁt can
also be observed in those with type 1 diabetes mellitus, in
whom glucose management with these drugs only has a
limited (SGLT-2 inhibitors) or no (GLP-1 agonists) role to
play, remains to be established. In individuals with an
eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73m2, these drugs are contraindicated. Therefore, it is advised to consider these drugs
in type 2 diabetes mellitus and peripheral artery disease
with an eGFR > 30 mL/min/1.73m2 after careful review
and possibly adjustment of other blood glucose lowering
medication to prevent hypoglycaemia, but for SGLT-2
inhibitors there are additional caveats.
The SGLT-2 inhibitor canagliﬂozin was associated with
an increased risk of amputation in an RCT. This was not
a pre-speciﬁed endpoint and was not observed in the
other SGLT-2 inhibitor trials143 or in long term prospective
studies, as concluded in the ADA-EASD 2022 consensus
report.144 In addition, in post hoc analyses, these drugs
had beneﬁcial cardiovascular and renal effects in people
with peripheral artery disease.145 However, individuals
with foot ulcers were frequently excluded in SGLT-2 inhibitor trials and there is a second caveat to be considered.
Diabetes related ketoacidosis is a rare but serious side effect of SGLT-2 inhibitors and prolonged fasting, acute
illness and the peri-operative period predispose to developing ketoacidosis. In these situations, the ADA-EASD
recommend temporary discontinuation of the medication, i.e., three days prior to surgery.144 Like those with
PAD, a diabetes related foot ulcer or gangrene have a
high risk of developing a foot infection or to undergo
one or more (urgent) surgical procedures, it is suggested
for pragmatic reasons that SGLT-2 inhibitors should not
be started in drug naïve individuals and that temporary
discontinuation should be considered in those already using these drugs, until the affected foot is healed.
Postscript
The targets discussed in this text are based on reduction of cardiovascular events, but it should be noted
that this is a composite endpoint and the deﬁnition between trials differs. MALE is also sometimes differently
deﬁned and the evidence for reducing lower limb events
in persons with diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer by pharmacological treatment is scarce. For this reason, a speciﬁc recommendation on this topic could not be made.

FUTURE RESEARCH PRIORITIES
One of the main limitations of this guideline is the lack
of prospective randomised trials, inconsistency of

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1127

Volume 78, Number 5

classiﬁcation and outcomes reported, and lack of separation of outcome for people with CLTI with and without
diabetes. Data reporting on PAD in relation to diagnosis,
prognosis, and management overwhelmingly relate to
the general population. There is a paucity of high level
evidence for diagnosis and management of those with
DFU or gangrene, with studies frequently including only
persons with intact feet or inadequately detailing (or
controlling for) confounding factors including presences
of neuropathy, ulcer, infection, or other contributors to
poor outcomes. Moreover, few studies in CLTI cohorts
provide subanalysis for those with diabetes, although
they are likely to make up the majority of the included
population. As such, there is clearly a need for further
research into this unique subgroup of individuals with
diabetes, so that outcomes around the world can be
improved. The Writing Committee considers there are a
number of priority areas for future research. The systematic review of the prognostic capacity of bedside vascular
testing to predict DFU healing and amputation outcomes demonstrated a lack of investigations of sufﬁcient
quality for several widely available tests including TBI and
TcPO2, with inconsistent use of measurement thresholds
and a lack of data examining the effect of combining
test outcomes. New technologies to develop optimal
tools and measures of foot perfusion for people with
DFU and PAD to guide revascularisation therapies would
be invaluable in guiding revascularisation strategies for
individuals and for determining when more aggressive
strategies are indicated.
Further questions. Which group of people with diabetes and a DFU, tissue loss, or gangrene most beneﬁt
from urgent revascularisation, and who may beneﬁt
from an initial expectant management?
The Writing Committee has made a Best Practice
Statement attempting to deﬁne which people are likely
to beneﬁt most from urgent vascular assessment and
revascularisation. Further studies to clarify person and
limb related factors are needed and such predictions
may be facilitated by new prediction methods such as
machine learning.146
Do newer endovascular revascularisation adjuncts and
techniques developed for infrapopliteal revascularisation
positively impact on patency rates and person centred
endpoints (amputation free survival, improved wound
healing, and health related quality of life) in those with
diabetes, PAD, and a foot ulcer?
A number of new technologies have been developed to
enhance patency of endovascular interventions,
including drug eluting balloons and stents, and bioresorbable vascular scaffolds and stents. Atherectomy
and lithotripsy devices have been developed to deal
with heavily calciﬁed lesions. Venous arterialisation has
also been introduced to attempt to revascularise those
with no option for revascularisation.147,148 The role and

indications for these interventions in the general population with CLTI, and in particular those with diabetes, remains to be clariﬁed.
Identify effective regenerative therapies (e.g., cell or
gene based) to improve foot perfusion in persons with
DFU and PAD who are not candidates for standard
revascularisation.
Angiogenesis (formation of new blood vessels from
existing ones) is important for the development of arterial collateral formation in response to arterial occlusion
and also for wound healing. Diabetes and hyperglycaemia are associated with impaired angiogenesis. A number of cell, gene, and protein based therapeutic
approaches have, and are, being trialled for both no option CLTI and wound healing in diabetes. There are
currently no therapies that have proven beneﬁcial and
trials are ongoing.149

CONTRIBUTION OF AUTHORS
The Writing Committee was chaired by R.F. (on behalf
of the IWGDF), with R.H. (on behalf of the ESVS) and
J.L.M (on behalf of the SVS) as co-chairs and supported
by N.S. (on behalf of the IWGDF). V.C. acted as scientiﬁc
secretary. The three organisations involved were each
tasked to select six well recognised experts to create an
international, multidisciplinary, writing committee of 18
members in total. Care was taken to have a global, multidisciplinary group that included disciplines such as
vascular surgery, angiology, interventional radiology,
vascular medicine, endocrinology, epidemiology, and
podiatry.
All members of the Writing Committee were involved
in summarising the available evidence in the supporting
systematic reviews, that are published separately, and in
writing this guideline. Several members (the chairs, scientiﬁc secretary, N.S, and M.S.C.) were assigned to write
individual sections of the guideline, and all authors
reviewed and discussed the evidence obtained, the evidence to decision items according to GRADE, and each
recommendation during group meetings. All authors
reviewed and agreed with the ﬁnal document before societal review and subsequent submission for endorsement. All members of the working group undertook
Level 1 GRADE training, and the several working group
members undertook Guideline Methodology training
(McMaster University).

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We would like to thank the following external experts
for their review of our PICOs for clinical relevance and
the guideline document: Sriram Narayanan (Singapore),
Rica Tanaka (Japan), Ismail Cassimjee (South Africa), Xu
Jun (China), Heidi Corcoran (Hong Kong), Yamile Jubiz
(Colombia), Tsvetalina Tankova (Bulgaria), and our patient representatives. Production of the 2023 IWGDF
Guidelines was supported by unrestricted grants from:

1128

Fitridge et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
November 2023

Advanced Oxygen Therapy Inc., Essity, Mölnlycke, Reapplix, and Urgo Medical. These sponsors did not have
any communication related to the systematic reviews
of the literature or related to the guidelines with working
group members during the writing of the guidelines and
have not seen any guideline or guideline-related document before publication.

REFERENCES
1. Bus SA. Standards for the development and methodology of the
2023 International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot guidelines.
Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3267. [Online
ahead of print].
2. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Schünemann HJ, Tugwell P, Knottnerus A.
GRADE guidelines: a new series of articles in the Journal of Clinical
Epidemiology. J Clin Epidemiol 2011;64:380-2.
3. Current care guidelines: peripheral arterial disease. Duodecim
2010;126:1433-4.
4. Moher D, Liberati A, Tetzlaff J, Altman DG. Preferred reporting items
for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement.
BMJ 2009;339:b2535.
5. Chuter VH, Schaper N, Mills J, Hinchliffe R, Azuma N, Behrendt C,
et al. Effectiveness of bedside investigations for diagnosing peripheral artery disease among people with diabetes mellitus: a
systematic review. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2023. [in press].
6. Chuter VH, Schaper N, Mills J, Hinchliffe R, Azuma N, Behrendt C,
et al. Performance of non-invasive bedside vascular testing in the
prediction of wound healing or amputation among people with
foot ulcers in diabetes: a systematic review. Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3701. [Online ahead of print].
7. Chuter V, Schaper N, Mills J, Hinchliffe R, Russell D, Azuma N, et al.
Effectiveness of revascularisation for the ulcerated foot in patients
with diabetes and peripheral artery disease: A systematic review.
Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3700. [Online
ahead of print].
8. Lucas NP, Macaskill P, Irwig L, Bogduk N. The development of a
quality appraisal tool for studies of diagnostic reliability (QAREL).
J Clin Epidemiol 2010;63:854-61.
 J, Berkman ND,
9. Sterne JA, Hernán MA, Reeves BC, Savovic
Viswanathan M, et al. ROBINS-I: a tool for assessing risk of bias in
non-randomised studies of interventions. BMJ 2016;355:i4919.
 J, Page MJ, Elbers RG, Blencowe NS, Boutron I,
10. Sterne JA, Savovic
et al. RoB 2: a revised tool for assessing risk of bias in randomised
trials. BMJ 2019;366:I4898.
11. Wells GA, Shea B, O’Connell D, Peterson J, Welch V, Losos M, et al.
The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) for assessing the quality of
nonrandomised studies in meta-analyses. Oxford; 2000.
12. Whiting PF, Rutjes AW, Westwood ME, Mallett S, Deeks JJ,
Reitsma JB, et al. QUADAS-2: a revised tool for the quality assessment of diagnostic accuracy studies. Ann Intern Med 2011;155:
529-36.
13. Hayden JA, van der Windt DA, Cartwright JL, Côté P, Bombardier C.
Assessing bias in studies of prognostic factors. Ann Intern Med
2013;158:280-6.
_
14. Schünemann H, Brozek
J, Guyatt G, Oxman A. The GRADE handbook. UK: Cochrane Collaboration London; 2013.
15. Dewidar O, Lotﬁ T, Langendam MW, Parmelli E, Saz Parkinson Z,
Solo K, et al. Good or best practice statements: proposal for the
operationalisation and implementation of GRADE guidance. BMJ
Evid Based Med 2023;28:189-96.
16. Frank U, Nikol S, Belch J, Boc V, Brodmann M, Carpentier PH, et al.
ESVM Guideline on peripheral arterial disease. Vasa 2019;48:1-79.
17. Aboyans V, Ricco JB, Bartelink ML, Björck M, Brodmann M, Cohner T,
et al. [2017 ESC Guidelines on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Peripheral Arterial Diseases, in collaboration with the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS)]. Kardiol Polska 2017;75:1065-160.

18. Cosentino F, Grant PJ, Aboyans V, Bailey CJ, Ceriello A, Delgado V,
et al. 2019 ESC Guidelines on diabetes, pre-diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases developed in collaboration with the EASD. Eur
Heart J 2020;41:255-323.
19. Mach F, Baigent C, Catapano AL, Koskinas KC, Casula M, Badimon L,
et al. 2019 ESC/EAS Guidelines for the management of dyslipidaemias: lipid modiﬁcation to reduce cardiovascular risk. Eur Heart J
2020;41:111-88.
20. Conte MS, Bradbury AW, Kolh P, White JV, Dick F, Fitridge R, et al.
Global Vascular Guidelines on the Management of Chronic LimbThreatening Ischemia. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2019;58:S1-109.e33.
21. 10. Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management: Standards
of Medical Care in Diabetes-2022. Diabetes Care 2022;45(Suppl. 1):
S144-74.
22. 6. Glycemic Targets: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2022.
Diabetes Care 2022;45(Suppl. 1):S83-96.
23. Aboyans V, Ricco JB, Bartelink MEL, Bjorck M, Brodmann M,
Cohnert T, et al. 2017 ESC Guidelines on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Peripheral Arterial Diseases, in collaboration with the European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS). Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl
Ed) 2018;71:111.
24. van Netten JJ, Bus SA, Apelqvist J, Chen P, Chuter V, Fitridge R, et al.
International Working Group on the Diabetic Foot. Deﬁnitions and
criteria for diabetes-related foot disease (IWGDF 2023 update).
Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3654. [Epub ahead
of print.].
25. Sun H, Saeedi P, Karuranga S, Pinkepank M, Ogurtsova K,
Duncan BB, et al. IDF Diabetes Atlas: Global, regional and countrylevel diabetes prevalence estimates for 2021 and projections for
2045. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2022;183:109119.
26. Armstrong DG, Boulton AJM, Bus SA. Diabetic foot ulcers and their
recurrence. New Engl J Med 2017;376:2367-75.
27. Boyko EJ, Ahroni JH, Stensel V, Forsberg RC, Davignon DR,
Smith DG. A prospective study of risk factors for diabetic foot ulcer.
The Seattle Diabetic Foot Study. Diabetes Care 1999;22:1036-42.
28. Zhang Y, Lazzarini PA, McPhail SM, van Netten JJ, Armstrong DG,
Pacella RE. Global disability burdens of diabetes-related lower-extremity complications in 1990 and 2016. Diabetes Care 2020;43:
964-74.
29. Stoberock K, Kaschwich M, Nicolay SS, Mahmoud N, Heidemann F,
Rieß HC, et al. The interrelationship between diabetes mellitus and
peripheral arterial disease. Vasa 2021;50:323-30.
30. Prompers L, Huijberts M, Apelqvist J, Jude E, Piaggesi A, Bakker K,
et al. High prevalence of ischaemia, infection and serious comorbidity in patients with diabetic foot disease in Europe. Baseline results from the Eurodiale study. Diabetologia 2007;50:18-25.
31. Jude EB, Oyibo SO, Chalmers N, Boulton AJ. Peripheral arterial
disease in diabetic and nondiabetic patients: a comparison of
severity and outcome. Diabetes Care 2001;24:1433-7.
32. Golledge J. Update on the pathophysiology and medical treatment
of peripheral artery disease. Nat Rev Cardiol 2022;19:456-74.
33. Low Wang CC, Blomster JI, Heizer G, Berger JS, Baumgartner I,
Fowkes FGR, et al. Cardiovascular and limb outcomes in patients
with diabetes and peripheral artery disease: the EUCLID Trial. J Am
Coll Cardiol 2018;72:3274-84.
34. Ix JH, Miller RG, Criqui MH, Orchard TJ. Test characteristics of the
ankle-brachial index and ankle-brachial difference for medial
arterial calciﬁcation on X-ray in type 1 diabetes. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:
721-7.
35. Leibson CL, Ransom JE, Olson W, Zimmerman BR, O’Fallon WM,
Palumbo PJ. Peripheral arterial disease, diabetes, and mortality.
Diabetes Care 2004;27:2843-9.
36. Yammine K, Hayek F, Assi C. A meta-analysis of mortality after minor amputation among patients with diabetes and/or peripheral
vascular disease. J Vasc Surg 2020;72:2197-207.
37. Hinchliffe RJ, Forsythe RO, Apelqvist J, Boyko EJ, Fitridge R,
Hong JP, et al. Guidelines on diagnosis, prognosis, and management of peripheral artery disease in patients with foot ulcers and
diabetes (IWGDF 2019 update). Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2020;36(Suppl 1):e3276.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1129

Volume 78, Number 5
38. Monteiro-Soares M, Hamilton EJ, Russell DA, Srisawasdi G, Boyko EJ,
Mills JL, et al. Classiﬁcation of foot ulcers in people with diabetes: a
systematic review. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.
3645. [Epub ahead of print].
39. Bus SA, Lavery LA, Monteiro-Soares M, Rasmussen A, Raspovic A,
Sacco IC, et al. Guidelines on the prevention of foot ulcers in persons
with diabetes (IWGDF 2019 update). Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2020;36(Suppl 1):e3269.
40. Bus SA, Armstrong DG, Gooday C, Jarl G, Caravaggi C,
Viswanathan V, et al. Guidelines on ofﬂoading foot ulcers in persons
with diabetes (IWGDF 2019 update). Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2020;36(Suppl 1):e3274.
41. Wukich DK, Schaper NC, Gooday C, Bal A, Bem R, Chhabra A, et al.
Guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of active charcot neuroosteoarthropathy in persons with diabetes mellitus (IWGDF 2023).
Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3646. [Online
ahead of print].
42. Chen P, Vilorio NC, Dhatariya K, Jeffcoate W, Lobmann R,
McIntosh C, et al. Guidelines on interventions to enhance healing of
foot ulcers in people with diabetes (IWGDF 2023 update). Diabetes
Metab Res Rev 2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3644. [Online ahead of print].
43. Schaper NC, van Netten JJ, Apelqvist J, Bus SA, Fitridge R, Game F,
et al. Practical guidelines on the prevention and management of
diabetes-related foot disease (IWGDF 2023 update). Diabetes
Metab Res Rev 2023. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3657. [Online ahead of print].
44. Aubert CE, Cluzel P, Kemel S, Michel PL, Lajat-Kiss F, Dadon M, et al.
Inﬂuence of peripheral vascular calciﬁcation on efﬁciency of
screening tests for peripheral arterial occlusive disease in diabetes–a
cross-sectional study. Diabet Med 2014;31:192-9.
45. Williams DT, Harding KG, Price P. An evaluation of the efﬁcacy of
methods used in screening for lower-limb arterial disease in diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:2206-10.
46. Dolan NC, Liu K, Criqui MH, Greenland P, Guralnik JM, Chan C, et al.
Peripheral artery disease, diabetes, and reduced lower extremity
functioning. Diabetes Care 2002;25:113-20.
47. Hirsch AT, Criqui MH, Treat-Jacobson D, Regensteiner JG,
Creager MA, Olin JW, et al. Peripheral arterial disease detection,
awareness, and treatment in primary care. JAMA 2001;286:1317-24.
48. Wang Z, Hasan R, Firwana B, Elraiyah T, Tsapas A, Prokop L, et al.
A systematic review and meta-analysis of tests to predict wound
healing in diabetic foot. J Vasc Surg 2016;63:29S-36S.e1e2.
49. Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, Barrett C, Barshes NR, Corriere MA,
Drachman DE, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC Guideline on the management
of patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease: a report
of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association
Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol 2017;69:
e71-126.
50. Hart T, Milner R, Cifu A. Management of a diabetic foot. JAMA
2017;318:1387-8.
51. Hingorani A, LaMuraglia GM, Henke P, Meissner MH, Loretz L,
Zinszer KM, et al. The management of diabetic foot: a clinical
practice guideline by the Society for Vascular Surgery in collaboration with the American Podiatric Medical Association and the
Society for Vascular Medicine. J Vasc Surg 2016;63:3s-21s.
52. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Guidelines.
Diabetic foot problems: prevention and management. London: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE);
2023.
53. Kim ES, Sharma AM, Scissons R, Dawson D, Eberhardt RT, GerhardHerman M, et al. Interpretation of peripheral arterial and venous
Doppler waveforms: a consensus statement from the Society for
Vascular Medicine and Society for Vascular Ultrasound. Vasc Med
2020;25:484-506.
54. Casey S, Lanting S, Oldmeadow C, Chuter V. The reliability of the ankle
brachial index: a systematic review. J Foot Ankle Res 2019;12:39.
55. Wennberg PW. Approach to the patient with peripheral arterial
disease. Circulation 2013;128:2241-50.
56. Vriens B, D’Abate F, Ozdemir BA, Fenner C, Maynard W, Budge J,
et al. Clinical examination and non-invasive screening tests in the
diagnosis of peripheral artery disease in people with diabetesrelated foot ulceration. Diabet Med 2018;35:895-902.
57. Babaei MR, Malek M, Rostami FT, Emami Z, Madani NH,
Khamseh ME. Non-invasive vascular assessment in people with type
2 diabetes: diagnostic performance of Plethysmographic-and-

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.
73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

Doppler derived ankle brachial index, toe brachial index, and
pulse volume wave analysis for detection of peripheral arterial disease. Prim Care Diabetes 2020;14:282-9.
Dinesh R, Vinod KV, Ramkumar G. Comparison of resting/postexercise ankle-brachial index and transcutaneous partial pressure
of oxygen for noninvasive diagnosis of peripheral artery disease in
type 2 diabetes mellitus. Med J Armed Forces India 2021;79:157-64.
Fejfarova V, Matuska J, Jude E, Pithova P, Flekac M, Roztocil K, et al.
Stimulation TcPO2 testing improves diagnosis of peripheral arterial
disease in patients with diabetic foot. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne)
2021;12:744195.
Hur KY, Jun JE, Choi YJ, Lee JH, Kim DJ, Park SW, et al. Color doppler
ultrasonography is a useful tool for diagnosis of peripheral artery
disease in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with ankle-brachial index 0.91 to 1.40. Diabetes Metab J 2018;42:63-73.
Normahani P, Poushpas S, Alaa M, Bravis V, Sounderajah V, Aslam M,
et al. Diagnostic accuracy of point-of-care tests used to detect
arterial disease in diabetes: TEsting for Arterial Disease in Diabetes
(TrEAD) Study. Ann Surg 2022;276:e605-12.
Park SC, Choi CY, Ha YI, Yang HE. Utility of toe-brachial index for
diagnosis of peripheral artery disease. Arch Plast Surg 2012;39:
227-31.
Potier L, Halbron M, Bouilloud F, Dadon M, Le Doeuff J, Ha Van G,
et al. Ankle-to-brachial ratio index underestimates the prevalence
of peripheral occlusive disease in diabetic patients at high risk for
arterial disease. Diabetes Care 2009;32:e44.
Bevilacqua NJ, Rogers LC, Armstrong DG. Diabetic foot surgery:
classifying patients to predict complications. Diabetes Metab Res
Rev 2008;24:S81-3.
Hering J, Angelkort B, Keck N, Wilde J, Amann B. Long-term
outcome of successful percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of
the ﬁbular artery in diabetic foot syndrome and single-vessel calf
perfusion depends on doppler wave pattern at the forefoot. Vasa
2010;39:67-75.
Tsai CY, Chu SY, Wen YW, Hsu LA, Chen CC, Peng SH, et al. The value
of Doppler waveform analysis in predicting major lower extremity
amputation among dialysis patients treated for diabetic foot ulcers.
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2013;100:181-8.
Zhang S, Wang S, Xu L, He Y, Xiang J, Tang Z. Clinical outcomes of
transmetatarsal amputation in patients with diabetic foot ulcers
treated without revascularization. Diabetes Ther 2019;10:1465-72.
Ho CY, Shanahan CM. Medial arterial calciﬁcation: An overlooked
player in peripheral arterial disease. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol
2016;36:1475-82.
Silvestro A, Diehm N, Savolainen H, Do DD, Vögelea J, Mahler F, et al.
Falsely high ankle-brachial index predicts major amputation in
critical limb ischemia. Vasc Med 2006;11:69-74.
Pickwell KM, Siersma VD, Kars M, Holstein PE, Schaper NC. Diabetic
foot disease: impact of ulcer location on ulcer healing. Diabetes
Metab Res Rev 2013;29:377-83.
Kalani M, Brismar K, Fagrell B, Ostergren J, Jörneskog G. Transcutaneous oxygen tension and toe blood pressure as predictors for
outcome of diabetic foot ulcers. Diabetes Care 1999;22:147-51.
Bunt TJ, Holloway GA. TcPO2 as an accurate predictor of therapy in
limb salvage. Ann Vasc Surg 1996;10:224-7.
Elgzyri T, Larsson J, Thörne J, Eriksson KF, Apelqvist J. Outcome of
ischemic foot ulcer in diabetic patients who had no invasive
vascular intervention. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;46:110-7.
Elgzyri T, Larsson J, Nyberg P, Thörne J, Eriksson KF, Apelqvist J. Early
revascularization after admittance to a diabetic foot center affects
the healing probability of ischemic foot ulcer in patients with diabetes. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2014;48:440-6.
Fagher K, Katzman P, Löndahl M. Transcutaneous oxygen pressure
as a predictor for short-term survival in patients with type 2 diabetes
and foot ulcers: a comparison with ankle-brachial index and toe
blood pressure. Acta Diabetol 2018;55:781-8.
Gershater MA, Löndahl M, Nyberg P, Larsson J, Thörne J, Eneroth M,
et al. Complexity of factors related to outcome of neuropathic and
neuroischaemic/ischaemic diabetic foot ulcers: a cohort study.
Diabetologia 2009;52:398-407.
Manu CA, Slim H, Huang D, Wilkins CJ, Vas PRJ, Rashid H, et al.
Isolated low toe-brachial index is associated with increased mortality and morbidity: a retrospective cohort study. J Wound Care
2021;30:65-73.

1130

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

November 2023
78. Mennes OA, van Netten JJ, van Baal JG, Slart R, Steenbergen W. The
association between foot and ulcer microcirculation measured
with laser speckle contrast imaging and healing of diabetic foot
ulcers. J Clin Med 2021;10:3844.
79. Rajagopalan C, Viswanathan V, Rajsekar S, Selvaraj B, Daniel L.
Diabetic foot ulcers - comparison of performance of ankle-brachial
index and transcutaneous partial oxygen pressure in predicting
outcome. Int J Diabetes Develop Countries 2018;38:179-84.
80. Wallin L, Björnsson H, Stenström A. Fluorescein angiography
for predicting healing of foot ulcers. Acta Orthop Scand 1989;60:
40-4.
81. Faris I, Duncan H. Skin perfusion pressure in the prediction of
healing in diabetic patients with ulcers or gangrene of the foot.
J Vasc Surg 1985;2:536-40.
82. Sharma S, Schaper N, Rayman G. Microangiopathy: Is it relevant to
wound healing in diabetic foot disease? Diabetes Metab Res Rev
2020;36:e3244.
83. Fiordaliso F, Clerici G, Maggioni S, Caminiti M, Bisighini C, Novelli D,
et al. Prospective study on microangiopathy in type 2 diabetic foot
ulcer. Diabetologia 2016;59:1542-8.
84. Mills JL, Sr, Conte MS, Armstrong DG, Pomposelli FB, Schanzer A,
Sidawy AN, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery Lower Extremity
Threatened Limb Classiﬁcation System: risk stratiﬁcation based on
wound, ischemia, and foot infection (WIfI). J Vasc Surg 2014;59:22034.e1e2.
85. van Reijen NS, Ponchant K, Ubbink DT, Koelemay MJW. Editor’s
Choice - The prognostic value of the WIfI classiﬁcation in patients
with chronic limb threatening ischaemia: a systematic review and
meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2019;58:362-71.
86. Andersen CA, McLeod K, Steffan R. Diagnosis and treatment of the
invasive extension of bacteria (cellulitis) from chronic wounds utilising point-of-care ﬂuorescence imaging. Int Wound J 2022;19:
996-1008.
87. Fujii M, Terashi H, Yokono K, Armstrong DG. The degree of blood
supply and infection control needed to treat diabetic chronic limbthreatening ischemia with forefoot osteomyelitis. J Am Podiatr Med
Assoc 2021;111:Article_4.
88. Mathioudakis N, Hicks CW, Canner JK, Sherman RL, Hines KF,
Lum YW, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery Wound, Ischemia,
and foot Infection (WIfI) classiﬁcation system predicts wound
healing but not major amputation in patients with diabetic foot
ulcers treated in a multidisciplinary setting. J Vasc Surg 2017;65:
1698e705.e1.
89. Weaver ML, Hicks CW, Canner JK, Sherman RL, Hines KF,
Mathioudakis N, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery Wound,
Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) classiﬁcation system predicts
wound healing better than direct angiosome perfusion in diabetic
foot wounds. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:1473-81.
90. Hicks CW, Canner JK, Karagozlu H, Mathioudakis N, Sherman RL,
Black JH, 3rd, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery Wound,
Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) classiﬁcation system correlates
with cost of care for diabetic foot ulcers treated in a multidisciplinary setting. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:1455-62.
91. Robinson WP, Loretz L, Hanesian C, Flahive J, Bostrom J, Lunig N,
et al. Society for Vascular Surgery Wound, Ischemia, foot Infection
(WIfI) score correlates with the intensity of multimodal limb treatment and patient-centered outcomes in patients with threatened
limbs managed in a limb preservation center. J Vasc Surg 2017;66:
488e98.e2.
92. Yang S, Gu Z, Lu C, Zhang T, Guo X, Xue G, et al. Neutrophil extracellular traps are markers of wound healing impairment in patients
with diabetic foot ulcers treated in a multidisciplinary setting. Adv
Wound Care (New Rochelle) 2020;9:16-27.
93. Zhan LX, Branco BC, Armstrong DG, Mills JL, Sr. The Society for
Vascular Surgery lower extremity threatened limb classiﬁcation
system based on Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection (WIfI) correlates with risk of major amputation and time to wound healing.
J Vasc Surg 2015;61:939-44.
94. Neagu C, Doran H, Buzea A, Agache A, Georgescu D, Patrascu T.
Algorithm of medical-surgical treatment in the peripheral arterial
disease of the diabetic patient. Maedica (Bucur) 2020;15:310.
95. Cheun TJ, Jayakumar L, Sideman MJ, Pounds LC, Davies MG. Outcomes of isolated inframalleolar interventions for chronic limb-

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.
101.

102.

103.

104.
105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

110.
111.

112.

113.

114.

115.

threatening ischemia in diabetic patients. J Vasc Surg 2020;71:
1644e52.e2.
Hicks CW, Canner JK, Karagozlu H, Mathioudakis N, Sherman RL,
Black JH 3rd, et al. Quantifying the costs and proﬁtability of care for
diabetic foot ulcers treated in a multidisciplinary setting. J Vasc
Surg 2019;70:233-40.
Hicks CW, Canner JK, Sherman RL, Black JH 3rd, Lum YW,
Abularrage CJ. Evaluation of revascularization beneﬁt quartiles using the Wound, Ischemia, and foot Infection classiﬁcation system
for diabetic patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia. J Vasc
Surg 2021;74:1232e9.e3.
Pena G, Kuang B, Edwards S, Cowled P, Dawson J, Fitridge R. Factors associated with key outcomes in diabetes related foot disease:
a prospective observational study. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2021;62:233-40.
Ricco JB, Gargiulo M, Stella A, Abualhin M, Gallitto E, Desvergnes M,
et al. Impact of angiosome- and nonangiosome-targeted peroneal
bypass on limb salvage and healing in patients with chronic limbthreatening ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2017;66:1479-87.
Lepäntalo M, Mätzke S. Outcome of unreconstructed chronic critical leg ischaemia. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1996;11:153-7.
Forsythe RO, Apelqvist J, Boyko EJ, Fitridge R, Hong JP, Katsanos K,
et al. Effectiveness of revascularisation of the ulcerated foot in patients with diabetes and peripheral artery disease: a systematic review. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2020;36(Suppl 1):e3279.
Noronen K, Saarinen E, Albäck A, Venermo M. Analysis of the elective treatment process for critical limb ischaemia with tissue loss:
diabetic patients require rapid revascularisation. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2017;53:206-13.
Prompers L, Schaper N, Apelqvist J, Edmonds M, Jude E, Mauricio D,
et al. Prediction of outcome in individuals with diabetic foot ulcers:
focus on the differences between individuals with and without
peripheral arterial disease. The EURODIALE Study. Diabetologia
2008;51:747-55.
Senneville E. International Working Group for the Diabetic
Foot Infection Guideline. Diabetes Metab Res Rev; 2023. [in press].
Fisher TK, Scimeca CL, Bharara M, Mills JL Sr, Armstrong DG.
A stepwise approach for surgical management of diabetic foot infections. J Am Podiatr Med Assoc 2010;100:401-5.
Lavery LA, Barnes SA, Keith MS, Seaman JW Jr, Armstrong DG.
Prediction of healing for postoperative diabetic foot wounds based
on early wound area progression. Diabetes Care 2008;31:26-9.
Coerper S, Beckert S, Küper MA, Jekov M, Königsrainer A. Fifty
percent area reduction after 4 weeks of treatment is a reliable indicator for healing–analysis of a single-center cohort of 704 diabetic
patients. J Diabetes Complications 2009;23:49-53.
Snyder RJ, Cardinal M, Dauphinée DM, Stavosky J. A post-hoc
analysis of reduction in diabetic foot ulcer size at 4 weeks as a
predictor of healing by 12 weeks. Ostomy Wound Manage 2010;56:
44-50.
Sheehan P, Jones P, Caselli A, Giurini JM, Veves A. Percent change in
wound area of diabetic foot ulcers over a 4-week period is a robust
predictor of complete healing in a 12-week prospective trial. Diabetes Care 2003;26:1879-82.
Dunning T. Integrating palliative care with usual care of diabetic
foot wounds. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2016;32(Suppl 1):303-10.
Farber A, Menard MT, Conte MS, Kaufman JA, Powell RJ,
Choudhry NK, et al. Surgery or endovascular therapy for chronic
limb-threatening ischemia. N Engl J Med 2022;387:2305-16.
Meecham L, Patel S, Bate GR, Bradbury AW. Editor’s Choice - A
comparison of clinical outcomes between primary bypass and
secondary bypass after failed plain balloon angioplasty in the
bypass versus angioplasty for severe ischaemia of the limb (BASIL)
trial. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2018;55:666-71.
Troisi N, Turini F, Chisci E, Ercolini L, Frosini P, Lombardi R, et al.
Pedal arch patency and not direct-angiosome revascularization
predicts outcomes of endovascular interventions in diabetic patients with critical limb ischemia. Int Angiol 2017;36:438-44.
Taylor GI, Palmer JH. The vascular territories (angiosomes) of the
body: experimental study and clinical applications. Br J Plast Surg
1987;40:113-41.
Attinger CE, Evans KK, Bulan E, Blume P, Cooper P. Angiosomes of
the foot and ankle and clinical implications for limb salvage:

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Fitridge et al

1131

Volume 78, Number 5

116.

117.

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

reconstruction, incisions, and revascularization. Plast Reconstr Surg
2006;117:261e93s.
Fossaceca R, Guzzardi G, Cerini P, Cusaro C, Stecco A, Parziale G,
et al. Endovascular treatment of diabetic foot in a selected population of patients with below-the-knee disease: is the angiosome
model effective? Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2013;36:637-44.
Acín F, Varela C, López de Maturana I, de Haro J, Bleda S, RodriguezPadilla J. Results of infrapopliteal endovascular procedures performed in diabetic patients with critical limb ischemia and tissue
loss from the perspective of an angiosome-oriented revascularization strategy. Int J Vasc Med 2014;2014:270539.
Alexandrescu VA, Brochier S, Limgba A, Balthazar S, Khelifa H, De
Vreese P, et al. Healing of diabetic neuroischemic foot wounds with
vs without wound-targeted revascularization: preliminary observations from an 8-year prospective dual-center registry.
J Endovascular Ther 2020;27:20-30.
Bekeny JC, Alfawaz A, Day J, Naz I, Attinger CE, Fan KL, et al. Indirect
endovascular revascularization via collaterals: a new classiﬁcation to
predict wound healing and limb salvage. Ann Vasc Surg 2021;73:
264-72.
Zheng XT, Zeng RC, Huang JY, Pan LM, Su X, Wu ZH, et al. The
use of the angiosome concept for treating infrapopliteal critical
limb ischemia through interventional therapy and determining
the clinical signiﬁcance of collateral vessels. Ann Vasc Surg
2016;32:41-9.

Spillerová
K, Settembre N, Biancari F, Albäck A, Venermo M.
Angiosome Targeted PTA is more important in endovascular
revascularisation than in surgical revascularisation: analysis of 545
patients with ischaemic tissue lesions. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2017;53:567-75.
Azuma N, Uchida H, Kokubo T, Koya A, Akasaka N, Sasajima T.
Factors inﬂuencing wound healing of critical ischaemic foot after
bypass surgery: is the angiosome important in selecting bypass
target artery? Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2012;43:322-8.
Lejay A, Georg Y, Tartaglia E, Gaertner S, Geny B, Thaveau F, et al.
Long-term outcomes of direct and indirect below-the-knee open
revascularization based on the angiosome concept in diabetic patients with critical limb ischemia. Ann Vasc Surg 2014;28:983-9.
Neville RF, Attinger CE, Bulan EJ, Ducic I, Thomassen M, Sidawy AN.
Revascularization of a speciﬁc angiosome for limb salvage: does the
target artery matter? Ann Vasc Surg 2009;23:367-73.
Kret MR, Cheng D, Azarbal AF, Mitchell EL, Liem TK, Moneta GL, et al.
Utility of direct angiosome revascularization and runoff scores in
predicting outcomes in patients undergoing revascularization for
critical limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:121-8.
Aerden D, Denecker N, Gallala S, Debing E, Van den Brande P.
Wound morphology and topography in the diabetic foot: hurdles in
implementing angiosome-guided revascularization. Int J Vasc Med
2014;2014:672897.
Mustapha J, Finton SM, Diaz-Sandoval LJ, Saab FA, Miller LE.
Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in patients with infrapopliteal arterial disease: systematic review and meta-analysis. Circ Cardiovasc Interv 2016;9:e003468.
McDermott KM, Srinivas T, Abularrage CJ. Multidisciplinary
approach to decreasing major amputation, improving outcomes,
and mitigating disparities in diabetic foot and vascular disease.
Semin Vasc Surg 2023;36:114-21.
ElSayed NA, Aleppo G, Aroda VR, Bannuru RR, Brown FM,
Bruemmer D, et al. 10. Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management:
Standards of Care in Diabetesd2023. Diabetes Care 2023;46:S158-90.
Hinchliffe RJ, Brownrigg JR, Andros G, Apelqvist J, Boyko EJ,
Fitridge R, et al. Effectiveness of revascularization of the ulcerated
foot in patients with diabetes and peripheral artery disease: a systematic review. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2016;32(Suppl 1):136-44.
Siersma V, Thorsen H, Holstein PE, Kars M, Apelqvist J, Jude EB, et al.
Importance of factors determining the low health-related quality of
life in people presenting with a diabetic foot ulcer: the Eurodiale
study. Diabet Med 2013;30:1382-7.
Ribu L, Hanestad BR, Moum T, Birkeland K, Rustoen T.
A comparison of the health-related quality of life in patients with
diabetic foot ulcers, with a diabetes group and a nondiabetes
group from the general population. Qual Life Res 2007;16:179-89.

133. A randomised, blinded, trial of clopidogrel versus aspirin in patients
at risk of ischaemic events (CAPRIE). CAPRIE Steering Committee.
Lancet 1996;348:1329-39.
134. Berger JS, Krantz MJ, Kittelson JM, Hiatt WR. Aspirin for the prevention
of cardiovascular events in patients with peripheral artery disease: a
meta-analysis of randomized trials. JAMA 2009;301:1909-19.
135. Bhatt DL, Marso SP, Hirsch AT, Ringleb PA, Hacke W, Topol EJ.
Ampliﬁed beneﬁt of clopidogrel versus aspirin in patients with
diabetes mellitus. Am J Cardiol 2002;90:625-8.
136. Anand SS, Caron F, Eikelboom JW, Bosch J, Dyal L, Aboyans V,
et al. Major adverse limb events and mortality in patients with
peripheral artery disease: the COMPASS Trial. J Am Coll Cardiol
2018;71:2306-15.
137. Twine CP, Kakkos SK, Aboyans V, Baumgartner I, Behrendt C-A,
Bellmunt-Montoya S, et al. European Society for Vascular Surgery
(ESVS) 2023 Clinical Practice Guidelines on Antithrombotic Therapy
for Vascular Diseases. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2023;65:627-89.
138. Bosch J, Eikelboom JW, Connolly SJ, Bruns NC, Lanius V, Yuan F,
et al. Rationale, design and baseline characteristics of participants
in the cardiovascular outcomes for people using anticoagulation
strategies (COMPASS) trial. Can J Cardiol 2017;33:1027-35.
139. Ambler GK, Nordanstig J, Behrendt C-A, Twine CP. Network metaanalysis of the beneﬁt of aspirin with rivaroxaban vs. clopidogrel
for patients with stable symptomatic lower extremity arterial disease. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2021;62:654-5.
140. Bonaca MP, Bauersachs RM, Anand SS, Debus ES, Nehler MR,
Patel MR, et al. Rivaroxaban in peripheral artery disease after
revascularization. N Engl J Med 2020;382:1994-2004.
141. Hiatt WR, Bonaca MP, Patel MR, Nehler MR, Debus ES, Anand SS,
et al. Rivaroxaban and aspirin in peripheral artery disease lower
extremity revascularization: impact of concomitant clopidogrel on
efﬁcacy and safety. Circulation 2020;142:2219-30.
142. Group DBOAoAS. Efﬁcacy of oral anticoagulants compared with
aspirin after infrainguinal bypass surgery (The Dutch Bypass Oral
Anticoagulants or Aspirin Study): a randomised trial. Lancet
2000;355:346-51.
143. Arnott C, Huang Y, Neuen BL, Di Tanna GL, Cannon CP, Oh R, et al.
The effect of canagliﬂozin on amputation risk in the CANVAS program and the CREDENCE trial. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:
1753-66.
144. Davies MJ, Aroda VR, Collins BS, Gabbay RA, Green J, Maruthur NM,
et al. Management of hyperglycaemia in type 2 diabetes, 2022. A
consensus report by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and
the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetologia 2022;65:1925-66.
145. Barraclough JY, Yu J, Figtree GA, Perkovic V, Heerspink HJL,
Neuen BL, et al. Cardiovascular and renal outcomes with canagliﬂozin in patients with peripheral arterial disease: Data from the
CANVAS Program and CREDENCE trial. Diabetes Obes Metab
2022;24:1072-83.
146. Xie P, Li Y, Deng B, Du C, Rui S, Deng W, et al. An explainable
machine learning model for predicting in-hospital amputation
rate of patients with diabetic foot ulcer. Int Wound J 2022;19:
910-8.
147. Ho VT, Gologorsky R, Kibrik P, Chandra V, Prent A, Lee J, et al. Open,
percutaneous, and hybrid deep venous arterialization technique for
no-option foot salvage. J Vasc Surg 2020;71:2152-60.
148. Shishehbor MH, Powell RJ, Montero-Baker MF, Dua A, MartínezTrabal JL, Bunte MC, et al. Transcatheter arterialization of deep veins
in chronic limb-threatening ischemia. New Engl J Med 2023;388:
1171-80.
149. Solly EL, Psaltis PJ, Bursill CA, Tan JTM. The role of miR-181c in
mechanisms of diabetes-impaired angiogenesis: an emerging
therapeutic target for diabetic vascular complications. Front Pharmacol 2021;12:718679.

Additional material for this article may be found online
at www.jvascsurg.org.

