Management of venous leg ulcers: Clinical practice
guidelines of the Society for Vascular Surgery and
the American Venous Forum
Endorsed by the American College of Phlebology and the Union Internationale de Phlébologie
Thomas F. O’Donnell Jr, MD, Marc A. Passman, MD, William A. Marston, MD, William J. Ennis, DO,
Michael Dalsing, MD, Robert L. Kistner, MD, Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD, Peter K. Henke, MD,
Monika L. Gloviczki, MD, PhD, Bo G. Eklöf, MD, PhD, Julianne Stoughton, MD, Sesadri Raju, MD,
Cynthia K. Shortell, MD, Joseph D. Raffetto, MD, Hugo Partsch, MD, Lori C. Pounds, MD,
Mary E. Cummings, MD, David L. Gillespie, MD, Robert B. McLafferty, MD,
Mohammad Hassan Murad, MD, Thomas W. Wakeﬁeld, MD, and Peter Gloviczki, MD

SVS/AVF Joint Clinical Practice Guidelines CommitteedVenous Leg Ulcer
Chair:
Thomas F. O’Donnell Jr, MD (Cardiovascular Center, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Mass)
Vice Chair:
Marc A. Passman, MD (Division of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy. University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, Ala; Birmingham Veterans Administration Medical Center, Birmingham, Ala)
Committee Members:
Mary E. Cummings, MD (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich)
Michael C. Dalsing, MD (Indiana University School of Medicine, IU Health Care System, Indianapolis, Ind)
Bo G. Eklöf, MD, PhD (Lund University, Sweden)
William J. Ennis, DO (University of Illinois Hospital and Health Science, Chicago, Ill)
David L. Gillespie, MD (Department of Vascular Surgery, Cardiovascular Care Center, Southcoast Healthcare
Systems, Fall River, Mass; Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences F. Edward Hebert School of
Medicine, Bethesda, Md)
Monika L.Gloviczki, MD, PhD (Gonda Vascular Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn)
Peter Gloviczki, MD (Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn)
Peter K. Henke, MD (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich)
Robert L. Kistner, MD (Honolulu, Hawaii)
Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD (Jobst Vascular Institute, Toledo, Ohio)
William A. Marston, MD (University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC)
Robert B. McLafferty, MD (Portland Veterans Administration Medical Center, Portland, Ore; Oregon Health
Sciences University, Portland, Ore)
M. Hassan Murad, MD (Division of Preventive Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn)
Hugo Partsch, MD (Medical University of Vienna, Austria)
Lori C. Pounds, MD (University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, Tex)
Joseph D. Raffetto, MD (Harvard Medical School, Boston Mass; Veterans Administration Boston Healthcare
System, Boston Mass; Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Boston, Mass)
Sesadri Raju, MD (The Rane Center, Jackson, Miss)
Cynthia K. Shortell, MD (Division of Vascular Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC)
Julianne Stoughton, MD (Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Mass)
Thomas W. Wakeﬁeld, MD (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich)

Author conﬂict of interest: none.
J Vasc Surg 2014;60:3S-59S
0741-5214/$36.00
Copyright Ó 2014 by the Society for Vascular Surgery.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2014.04.049

3S

4S O’Donnell et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Sub-CommitteedClinical Evaluation:
Marc A. Passman, MD (chair); Peter K. Henke, MD; William A. Marston, MD; Robert B. McLafferty, MD; Lori
Pounds, MD
Sub-CommitteedWound Care:
William A. Marston, MD (co-Chair); William J. Ennis, DO (co-Chair); Emily Cummings, MD; Thomas F.
O’Donnell Jr, MD; Lori C. Pounds, MD
Sub-CommitteedCompression:
Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD (co-Chair); Thomas W. Wakeﬁeld, MD (co-Chair); MD; Monika L. Gloviczki, MD, PhD;
Hugo Partsch, MD; Cynthia Shortell, MD
Sub-CommitteedSurgery:
Michael C. Dalsing, MD (co-Chair); Robert Kistner, MD (co-Chair); Bo G. Eklöf, MD, PhD; David Gillespie, MD;
Peter Gloviczki, MD; Julianne Stoughton, MD; Sesadri Raju, MD
Sub-CommitteedAncillary:
Monika L. Gloviczki, MD, PhD (Chair); Cynthia K. Shortell, MD; Julianne Stoughton, MD; William J. Ennis, DO
Sub-CommitteedPrimary Prevention:
Peter K. Henke, MD (Chair); Emily Cummings, MD; Michael C. Dalsing, MD; Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD
Section Contributors
Editors: Thomas F. O’Donnell Jr, MD; Marc A. Passman, MD
Summary of Guidelines: SVS/AVF Committee
Need for Intersociety Consensus Guidelines: Thomas F. O’Donnell Jr, MD
Methodology of Guidelines: Thomas F. O’Donnell Jr, MD; Mohammad Hassan Murad, MD
DeﬁnitiondVenous Leg Ulcer: Thomas F. O’Donnell Jr, MD; Robert Kistner, MD
Venous Anatomy and Pathophysiology: Marc A. Passman, MD (Anatomy); Joseph D. Raffetto, MD (Pathophysiology)
Clinical Evaluation: Marc A. Passman, MD; William A. Marston, MD; Peter Henke, MD; Robert B. McLafferty, MD;
Lori C. Pounds, MD; William J. Ennis, MD
Wound Care: William A. Marston, MD; William J. Ennis, DO; Emily Cummings, MD; Lori Pounds, MD; Thomas F.
O’Donnell Jr, MD
Compression: Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD; Thomas W. Wakeﬁeld, MD; Monika L. Gloviczki, MD, PhD; Hugo Partsch,
MD; Cynthia Shortell, MD; Andrea Obi, MD (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich)
Surgery: Michael C. Dalsing, MD; Robert Kistner, MD; Bo G. Eklöf, MD, PhD; Peter Gloviczki, MD; Sesadri Raju,
MD; Julianne Stoughton, MD; David Gillespie, MD
Ancillary: Monika L. Gloviczki, MD, PhD; Cynthia K. Shortell, MD; Julianne Stoughton, MD; William J. Ennis, MD;
William A. Marston, MD
Primary Prevention: Peter Henke, MD; Fedor Lurie, MD, PhD; Emily Cummings, MD; Michael C. Dalsing, MD

SUMMARY OF GUIDELINES FOR MANAGEMENT OF VENOUS ULCER

DEFINITION VENOUS LEG ULCER
Guideline 1.1: Venous Leg Ulcer Deﬁnition
We suggest use of a standard deﬁnition of venous ulcer as an open skin lesion of the leg or foot that occurs in an
area affected by venous hypertension. [BEST PRACTICE]
VENOUS ANATOMY AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY
Guideline 2.1: Venous Anatomy Nomenclature
We recommend use of the International Consensus Committee on Venous Anatomical Terminology for standardized venous anatomy nomenclature. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 2.2: Venous Leg Ulcer Pathophysiology
We recommend a basic practical knowledge of venous physiology and venous leg ulcer pathophysiology for all
practitioners caring for venous leg ulcers. [BEST PRACTICE]

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 5S

CLINICAL EVALUATION
Guideline 3.1: Clinical Evaluation
We recommend that for all patients with suspected leg ulcers ﬁtting the deﬁnition of venous leg ulcer, clinical
evaluation for evidence of chronic venous disease be performed. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 3.2: Nonvenous Causes of Leg Ulcers
We recommend identiﬁcation of medical conditions that affect ulcer healing and other nonvenous causes of
ulcers. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 3.3: Wound Documentation
We recommend serial venous leg ulcer wound measurement and documentation. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 3.4: Wound Culture
We suggest against routine culture of venous leg ulcers and only to obtain wound culture specimens when clinical evidence of infection is present. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.5: Wound Biopsy
We recommend wound biopsy for leg ulcers that do not improve with standard wound and compression
therapy after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment and for all ulcers with atypical features. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.6: Laboratory Evaluation
We suggest laboratory evaluation for thrombophilia for patients with a history of recurrent venous thrombosis
and chronic recurrent venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.7: Arterial Testing
We recommend arterial pulse examination and measurement of ankle-brachial index on all patients with venous
leg ulcer. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 3.8: Microcirculation Assessment
We suggest against routine microcirculation assessment of venous leg ulcers but suggest selective consideration
as an adjunctive assessment for monitoring of advanced wound therapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.9: Venous Duplex Ultrasound
We recommend comprehensive venous duplex ultrasound examination of the lower extremity in all patients
with suspected venous leg ulcer. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 3.10: Venous Plethysmography
We suggest selective use of venous plethysmography in the evaluation of patients with suspected venous leg
ulcer if venous duplex ultrasound does not provide deﬁnitive diagnostic information. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 3.11: Venous Imaging
We suggest selective computed tomography venography, magnetic resonance venography, contrast venography,
and/or intravascular ultrasound in patients with suspected venous leg ulceration if additional advanced venous
diagnosis is required for thrombotic or nonthrombotic iliac vein obstruction or for operative planning before
open or endovenous interventions. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 3.12: Venous Disease Classiﬁcation
We recommend that all patients with venous leg ulcer be classiﬁed on the basis of venous disease classiﬁcation
assessment, including clinical CEAP, revised Venous Clinical Severity Score, and venous diseaseespeciﬁc quality of
life assessment. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 3.13: Venous Procedural Outcome Assessment
We recommend venous procedural outcome assessment including reporting of anatomic success, venous hemodynamic success, procedure-related minor and major complications, and impact on venous leg ulcer healing. [BEST
PRACTICE]
WOUND CARE
Guideline 4.1: Wound Cleansers
We suggest that venous leg ulcers be cleansed initially and at each dressing change with a neutral, nonirritating,
nontoxic solution, performed with a minimum of chemical or mechanical trauma. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]

6S O’Donnell et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Guideline 4.2: Débridement
We recommend that venous leg ulcers receive thorough débridement at their initial evaluation to remove obvious
necrotic tissue, excessive bacterial burden, and cellular burden of dead and senescent cells. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - B] We suggest that additional maintenance débridement be performed to maintain the appearance
and readiness of the wound bed for healing. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest that the health
care provider choose from a number of débridement methods, including sharp, enzymatic, mechanical, biologic, and
autolytic. More than one débridement method may be appropriate. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.3: Anesthesia for Surgical Débridement
We recommend that local anesthesia (topical or local injection) be administered to minimize discomfort associated with surgical venous leg ulcer débridement. In selected cases, regional block or general anesthesia may be
required. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.4: Surgical Débridement
We recommend that surgical débridement be performed for venous leg ulcers with slough, nonviable tissue, or
eschar. Serial wound assessment is important in determining the need for repeated débridement. [GRADE - 1;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.5 Hydrosurgical Débridement
We suggest hydrosurgical débridement as an alternative to standard surgical débridement of venous leg ulcers.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.6: Ultrasonic Débridement
We suggest against ultrasonic débridement over surgical débridement in the treatment of venous leg ulcers.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.7: Enzymatic Débridement
We suggest enzymatic débridement of venous leg ulcers when no clinician trained in surgical débridement is
available to débride the wound. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We do not suggest enzymatic débridement over surgical débridement. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.8: Biologic Débridement
We suggest that larval therapy for venous leg ulcers can be used as an alternative to surgical débridement.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.9: Management of Limb Cellulitis
We recommend that cellulitis (inﬂammation and infection of the skin and subcutaneous tissue) surrounding the
venous leg ulcer be treated with systemic gram-positive antibiotics. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.10: Wound Colonization and Bacterial Bioﬁlms
We suggest against systemic antimicrobial treatment of venous leg ulcer colonization or bioﬁlm without clinical
evidence of infection. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.11: Treatment of Wound Infection
We suggest that venous leg ulcers with >1 3 106 CFU/g of tissue and clinical evidence of infection be treated
with antimicrobial therapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We suggest antimicrobial therapy for
virulent or difﬁcult to eradicate bacteria (such as beta-hemolytic streptococci, pseudomonas, and resistant
staphylococcal species) at lower levels of colony-forming units per gram of tissue. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C] We suggest a combination of mechanical disruption and antibiotic therapy as most likely to be
successful in eradicating venous leg ulcer infection. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.12: Systemic Antibiotics
We recommend that venous leg ulcers with clinical evidence of infection be treated with systemic antibiotics
guided by sensitivities performed on wound culture. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] Oral antibiotics
are preferred initially, and the duration of antibiotic therapy should be limited to 2 weeks unless persistent evidence
of wound infection is present. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.13: Topical Antibiotics for Infected Wounds
We suggest against use of topical antimicrobial agents for the treatment of infected venous leg ulcers.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.14: Topical Dressing Selection
We suggest applying a topical dressing that will manage venous leg ulcer exudate and maintain a moist, warm
wound bed. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We suggest selection of a primary wound dressing that will
absorb wound exudate produced by the ulcer (alginates, foams) and protect the periulcer skin. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 7S

Guideline 4.15: Topical Dressings Containing Antimicrobials
We recommend against the routine use of topical antimicrobial-containing dressings in the treatment of noninfected venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - A]
Guideline 4.16: Periulcer Skin Management
We suggest application of skin lubricants underneath compression to reduce dermatitis that commonly affects
periulcer skin. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE -C] In severe cases of dermatitis associated with venous leg
ulcers, we suggest topical steroids to reduce the development of secondary ulcerations and to reduce the symptoms
of dermatitis. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.17: Anti-inﬂammatory Therapies
We suggest against use of anti-inﬂammatory therapies for the treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.18: Indications for Adjuvant Therapies
We recommend adjuvant wound therapy options for venous leg ulcers that fail to demonstrate improvement
after a minimum of 4 to 6 weeks of standard wound therapy. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.19: Split-thickness Skin Grafting
We suggest against split-thickness skin grafting as primary therapy in treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest split-thickness skin grafting with continued compression for selected
large venous leg ulcers that have failed to show signs of healing with standard care for 4 to 6 weeks. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.20: Cellular Therapy
We suggest the use of cultured allogeneic bilayer skin replacements (with both epidermal and dermal layers) to
increase the chances for healing in patients with difﬁcult to heal venous leg ulcers in addition to compression therapy in patients who have failed to show signs of healing after standard therapy for 4 to 6 weeks. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - A]
Guideline 4.21: Preparation for Cellular Therapy
We suggest a therapeutic trial of appropriate compression and wound bed moisture control before application
of cellular therapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We recommend that adequate wound bed preparation, including complete removal of slough, debris, and any necrotic tissue, be completed before the application
of a bilayered cellular graft. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We recommend additional evaluation and
management of increased bioburden levels before the application of cellular therapy. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.22: Frequency of Cellular Therapy Application
We suggest reapplication of cellular therapy as long as the venous leg ulcer continues to respond on the basis of
wound documentation. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.23: Tissue Matrices, Human Tissues, or Other Skin Substitutes
We suggest the use of a porcine small intestinal submucosal tissue construct in addition to compression therapy
for the treatment of venous leg ulcers that have failed to show signs of healing after standard therapy for 4 to 6
weeks. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.24: Negative Pressure Therapy
We suggest against routine primary use of negative pressure wound therapy for venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.25: Electrical Stimulation
We suggest against electrical stimulation therapy for venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.26: Ultrasound Therapy
We suggest against routine ultrasound therapy for venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
COMPRESSION
Guideline 5.1: CompressiondUlcer Healing
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer, we recommend compression therapy over no compression therapy to increase venous leg ulcer healing rate. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - A]
Guideline 5.2: CompressiondUlcer Recurrence
In a patient with a healed venous leg ulcer, we suggest compression therapy to decrease the risk of ulcer recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]

8S O’Donnell et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Guideline 5.3: Multicomponent Compression Bandage
We suggest the use of multicomponent compression bandage over single-component bandages for the treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 5.4: CompressiondArterial Insufﬁciency
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer and underlying arterial disease, we do not suggest compression bandages or
stockings if the ankle-brachial index is 0.5 or less or if absolute ankle pressure is less than 60 mm Hg. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 5.5: Intermittent Pneumatic Compression
We suggest use of intermittent pneumatic compression when other compression options are not available,
cannot be used, or have failed to aid in venous leg ulcer healing after prolonged compression therapy. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
OPERATIVE/ENDOVASCULAR MANAGEMENT
Guideline 6.1: Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Active Venous Leg UlcerdUlcer Healing
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer (C6) and incompetent superﬁcial veins that have axial reﬂux directed to the
bed of the ulcer, we suggest ablation of the incompetent veins in addition to standard compressive therapy to
improve ulcer healing. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.2: Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Active Venous Leg UlcerdPrevent Recurrence
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer (C6) and incompetent superﬁcial veins that have axial reﬂux directed to the
bed of the ulcer, we recommend ablation of the incompetent veins in addition to standard compressive therapy to
prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 6.3: Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Healed Venous Leg Ulcer
In a patient with a healed venous leg ulcer (C5) and incompetent superﬁcial veins that have axial reﬂux directed
to the bed of the ulcer, we recommend ablation of the incompetent veins in addition to standard compressive therapy to prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.4: Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux With Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b)
In a patient with skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b) and incompetent superﬁcial veins that have axial
reﬂux directed to the bed of the affected skin, we suggest ablation of the incompetent superﬁcial veins in addition to
standard compressive therapy to prevent ulceration. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.5: Combined Superﬁcial and Perforator Venous Reﬂux With or Without Deep Venous Reﬂux and
Active Venous Leg Ulcer
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer (C6) and incompetent superﬁcial veins that have reﬂux to the ulcer bed in
addition to pathologic perforating veins (outward ﬂow of >500 ms duration, with a diameter of >3.5 mm) located
beneath or associated with the ulcer bed, we suggest ablation of both the incompetent superﬁcial veins and
perforator veins in addition to standard compressive therapy to aid in ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.6: Combined Superﬁcial and Perforator Venous Reﬂux With or Without Deep Venous Disease and
Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b) or Healed Venous Ulcer (C5)
In a patient with skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b) or healed venous ulcer (C5) and incompetent
superﬁcial veins that have reﬂux to the ulcer bed in addition to pathologic perforating veins (outward ﬂow of >500
ms duration, with a diameter of >3.5 mm) located beneath or associated with the healed ulcer bed, we suggest ablation of the incompetent superﬁcial veins to prevent the development or recurrence of a venous leg ulcer. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] Treatment of the incompetent perforating veins can be performed simultaneously
with correction of axial reﬂux or can be staged with re-evaluation of perforator veins for persistent incompetence
after correction of axial reﬂux. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.7: Pathologic Perforator Venous Reﬂux in the Absence of Superﬁcial Venous Disease, With or
Without Deep Venous Reﬂux, and a Healed or Active Venous Ulcer
In a patient with isolated pathologic perforator veins (outward ﬂow of >500 ms duration, with a diameter of
>3.5 mm) located beneath or associated with the healed (C5) or active ulcer (C6) bed regardless of the status of the
deep veins, we suggest ablation of the “pathologic” perforating veins in addition to standard compression therapy
to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 9S

Guideline 6.8: Treatment Alternatives for Pathologic Perforator Veins
For those patients who would beneﬁt from pathologic perforator vein ablation, we recommend treatment by
percutaneous techniques that include ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy or endovenous thermal ablation (radiofrequency or laser) over open venous perforator surgery to eliminate the need for incisions in areas of compromised
skin. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.9: Infrainguinal Deep Venous Obstruction and Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b),
Healed (C5) or Active (C6) Venous Leg Ulcer
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous obstruction and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b),
healed venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer (C6), we suggest autogenous venous bypass or endophlebectomy in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.10: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed (C5) or
Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdLigation
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b), healed
venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer (C6), we suggest against deep vein ligation of the femoral or popliteal veins as a routine treatment. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.11: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed (C5) or
Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdPrimary Valve Repair
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b), healed
venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer (C6), we suggest individual valve repair for those who have axial
reﬂux with structurally preserved deep venous valves in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous
ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.12: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed (C5) or
Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdValve Transposition or Transplantation
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b), healed
venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer (C6), we suggest valve transposition or transplantation for those
with absence of structurally preserved axial deep venous valves when competent outﬂow venous pathways are
anatomically appropriate for surgical anastomosis in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous
leg ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.13: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed (C5) or
Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdAutogenous Valve Substitute
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b), healed
venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer (C6), we suggest consideration of autogenous valve substitutes
by surgeons experienced in these techniques to facilitate ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence in those with
no other option available in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.14: Proximal Chronic Total Venous Occlusion/Severe Stenosis With Skin Changes at Risk for
Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed (C5) or Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdEndovascular Repair
In a patient with inferior vena cava or iliac vein chronic total occlusion or severe stenosis, with or without lower
extremity deep venous reﬂux disease, that is associated with skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b), healed
venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer (C6), we recommend venous angioplasty and stent recanalization in
addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 1;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.15: Proximal Chronic Venous Occlusion/Severe Stenosis (Bilateral) With Recalcitrant Venous
UlcerdOpen Repair
In a patient with inferior vena cava or iliac vein chronic occlusion or severe stenosis, with or without lower extremity deep venous reﬂux disease, that is associated with a recalcitrant venous leg ulcer and failed endovascular
treatment, we suggest open surgical bypass with use of an externally supported expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene
graft in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous leg ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.16: Unilateral Iliofemoral Venous Occlusion/Severe Stenosis With Recalcitrant Venous Ulcerd
Open Repair
In a patient with unilateral iliofemoral venous occlusion/severe stenosis with recalcitrant venous leg ulcer for
whom attempts at endovascular reconstruction have failed, we suggest open surgical bypass with use of saphenous
vein as a cross-pubic bypass (Palma procedure) to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence. A synthetic
graft is an alternative in the absence of autogenous tissue. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

10S O’Donnell et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Guideline 6.17: Proximal Chronic Total Venous Occlusion/Severe Stenosis (Bilateral or Unilateral) With
Recalcitrant Venous UlcerdAdjunctive Arteriovenous Fistula
For those patients who would beneﬁt from an open venous bypass, we suggest the addition of an adjunctive
arteriovenous ﬁstula (4-6 mm in size) as an adjunct to improve inﬂow into autologous or prosthetic crossover bypasses when the inﬂow is judged to be poor to aid in venous leg ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
ANCILLARY MEASURES
Guideline 7.1: Nutrition Assessment and Management
We recommend that nutrition assessment be performed in any patient with a venous leg ulcer who has evidence
of malnutrition and that nutritional supplementation be provided if malnutrition is identiﬁed. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 7.2: Systemic Drug Therapy
For long-standing or large venous leg ulcer, we recommend treatment with either pentoxifylline or micronized puriﬁed ﬂavonoid fraction used in combination with compression therapy. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 7.3: Physiotherapy
We suggest supervised active exercise to improve muscle pump function and to reduce pain and edema in
patients with venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 7.4: Manual Lymphatic Drainage
We suggest against adjunctive lymphatic drainage for healing of the chronic venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 7.5: Balneotherapy
We suggest balneotherapy to improve skin trophic changes and quality of life in patients with advanced venous
disease. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 7.6: Ultraviolet light
We suggest against use of ultraviolet light for the treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
PRIMARY PREVENTION
Guideline 8.1: Primary PreventiondClinical CEAP C3-4 Primary Venous Disease
In patients with clinical CEAP C3-4 disease due to primary valvular reﬂux, we recommend compression, 20 to
30 mm Hg, knee or thigh high. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 8.2: Primary PreventiondClinical CEAP C1-4 Post-thrombotic Venous Disease
In patients with clinical CEAP C1-4 disease related to prior deep venous thrombosis (DVT), we recommend
compression, 30 to 40 mm Hg, knee or thigh high. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 8.3. Primary PreventiondAcute DVT Treatment
As post-thrombotic syndrome is a common preceding event for venous leg ulcers, we recommend current
evidence-based therapies for acute DVT treatment. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest use of
low-molecular-weight heparin over vitamin K antagonist therapy of 3-month duration to decrease postthrombotic syndrome. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest catheter-directed thrombolysis in patients with low bleeding risk with iliofemoral DVT of duration <14 days. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 8.4: Primary PreventiondEducation Measures
In patients with C1-4 disease, we suggest patient and family education, regular exercise, leg elevation when at
rest, careful skin care, weight control, and appropriately ﬁtting foot wear. [BEST PRACTICE]
Guideline 8.5: Primary PreventiondOperative Therapy
In patients with asymptomatic C1-2 disease from either primary or secondary causes, we suggest against prophylactic interventional therapies to prevent venous leg ulcer. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
RATIONALE FOR VENOUS LEG ULCER
GUIDELINES
Guidelines present a synthesis of evidence-based recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of a speciﬁc
medical condition.1 The value of a guideline is that it provides consistency among treatment protocols given to patients, resulting in improved efﬁcacy and the quality of

care and reduced cost. The need for cost containment of
health care has placed the development and implementation of clinical care guidelines as a high priority for health
care systems Both the prevalence of venous leg ulcers
(VLUs)d1% to 1.5% of the populationdand the economic impact of VLUs are two compelling reasons to
develop a speciﬁc guideline for this problem.2 The care

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

of VLUs can consume a signiﬁcant amount of resources, so
that an agreed on “best practice” algorithm can maximize
the quality and effectiveness of care while minimizing cost
and resource use.3 Moreover, VLUs are associated with
prolonged disability, important socioeconomic impact,
and signiﬁcant psychosocial morbidity. Because approximately 50% of VLUs may recur within 10 years, they are
marked by a signiﬁcant component of chronicity, which
compounds their economic impact and need for repetitive
care. VLUs also can be painful, so that a patient’s ability
to work may be compromised, and can also affect the
retired segments of the population, thereby compounding
both the indirect and direct costs of treating VLU.
Epidemiology of Venous Leg Ulcers. VLUs are the
most common ulceration on the lower extremity and account for 70% of all leg ulcers.4 Various estimates have
been made from observational studies on the prevalence of
VLU, ranging between 0.06% and 2%. The Edinburgh
study, which was a cross-sectional study of a random
sample of more than 1500 people between the ages of 18
and 64 years, provided an estimate of VLU prevalence of
1%.5 This lower prevalence contrasts with the higher
prevalence of an earlier study (2.7% clinical CEAP C5/
C6), which was based on a questionnaire and photographs
of the legs of the participants.6 As in the Edinburgh study,
VLU prevalence increased with age. Two other studies
examined large populations. Approximately 40,000 Polish
patients underwent clinical evaluation and interviews by a
variety of health care professionals in a multicenter study
showing a 1.5% prevalence of C5/C6 disease.7 Another
cross-sectional study carried out in France addressed a
subset of patients from a larger study of Raynaud patients.
All of the 400 patients were evaluated by vascular medicine
specialists. C5 disease was higher in men (5.4%) than in
women (2.7%), but the investigators observed no open
ulcers.8 The most detailed information comes from the
Bonn Vein Longitudinal Study initiated by the German
Ministry of Health.9 More than 3000 participants were
randomly identiﬁed between the ages of 18 and 79 years.
Advanced chronic venous reﬂux (chronic venous insufﬁciency [CVI]) was found in 0.6% with a healed VLU (C5)
and in 0.1% with an open VLU for a total of 0.7%. This
longitudinal study documented a decrease in advanced
CVI (C4-C6), which may be related to a more comprehensive use of diagnostic and therapeutic modalities for
CVI. Because of the high prevalence of venous disease, the
AVF National Venous Screening Program was established
in the United States to increase awareness. The program
screened 2234 individuals and identiﬁed varicose veins in
more than 30% of participants and more advanced venous
disease (C4-C6) in more than 10%.10 It has been estimated
that approximately 2.5 million people suffer from CVI in
the United States, and of those, about 20% develop venous
ulcers.11
Economic Impact. The overall cost of treating VLU
approaches 1% of the health care budget of some western
European countries; in the United Kingdom, the annual
cost is estimated to range from ₤300 million to ₤600

O’Donnell et al 11S

million per year.12,13 In the United States, $2.5 billion
was expended for the treatment of VLUs in more than 6
million patients.14 A recent study on the cost of treating
VLUs in Germany demonstrated that mean cost averaged
V9569 per patient per year, and 92% of this expenditure
was related to direct costs.15 Although the majority of
patients with VLUs can be treated on an outpatient basis
and are infrequently hospitalized except for complications,
the direct cost of treating VLUs in the United States has
been estimated to be $2500 per month per patient.16 In
the ambulatory setting, the direct cost of this care is related
to (1) technical (facility) costs and professional reimbursement (physicians); (2) labor costs (nurses and paramedical personnel) for wound care treatments, which are
the major driver of costs; and (3) medications as well as
specialized wound dressings and compression garments. A
key determinant of the costs of treating VLU is the effectiveness of treatmentdnot only how rapidly the ulcer heals,
but also whether the ulcer recurs. For example, a more
expensive wound dressing may have an economic advantage for overall care because of more rapid healing of the
VLU with less duration of product use and attendant labor
costs.
To determine the actual costs of treating VLUs during
a 1-year period, a recent study examined a cohort of 84 patients with nonhealing VLUs (CEAP C6) who presented
to a wound clinic. All patients were treated in a wound
center by ﬁve vascular surgeons with a minimum followup of 6 months (median, 368 days; 336-483).17 Actual
costs (not charges) were obtained for outpatient and inpatient facility, visiting nurse services, and physician practice
group to yield true cost. The proportion and time to complete healing of VLU were determined to calculate time to
healing as well as ulcer-free intervals. Cost/ulcer-free days
and cost to complete healing for the entire follow-up
period were carried out with univariate analysis of factors
affecting cost. The mean total cost of treating VLU during
this follow-up period was $15,732. A total of 50 patients
(60%) healed their VLU without recurrence in a mean
time of 122 days (6-379 days) at a mean cost of
$10,563 ($430-$50,967). Signiﬁcant contributing factors
were outpatient facility fees ($10,332) and visiting nurse
services ($11,365) related to extended treatment of the
open VLU. Patients who failed to heal their ulcer during
the duration of this study (20%) had a threefold increase
in their costs ($33,907). Those patients who had recurrence of their VLU (N ¼ 17; 20%) during the follow-up
period had a total mean cost of $12,760. Inpatient admission, of which nearly two thirds was for treatment of infections that were resistant to therapy in an outpatient setting,
markedly increased costs ($33,629). By contrast, VLU
treated with surgical intervention of the superﬁcial venous
system did not signiﬁcantly increase total cost over that of
patients receiving best medical therapy ($11,960 vs
$12,304) but signiﬁcantly reduced recurrence rates (34%
vs 5%). By, contrast, patients treated for outﬂow obstruction had a twofold increase in total costs ($24,241 vs
$11,960).

12S O’Donnell et al

Value of Clinical Practice Guidelines for Venous
Leg Ulcer Care. The value of developing and implementing clinical practice guidelines should be to provide quality
of care without a dramatic increase in cost. This focus on
“best outcomes for the most reasonable health care dollar”
has stimulated many organizations, such as the SVS and
AVF, to develop and to promote a uniﬁed set of guidelines
for treatment of chronic diseases, such as VLUs. An
evidence-based analysis of treatment options should
decrease the variations in care while at the same time
ensuring that resources are used in an optimal manner.
Specialty societies, as in the current SVS and AVF guideline,
develop clinical practice guidelines either by independent
review of available studies or by employing evidence from
technology assessments and other published guidelines. For
the development of comprehensive clinical practice guidelines on VLUs that would be of value to providers and the
health care system in general, an expert panel needs to
evaluate the efﬁcacy of individual wound care dressings,
surgery, or compression products, as demonstrated in randomized controlled trials (RCTs). In addition, large case
series and expert opinion are also used as evidence, although
of lower quality. The value of these clinical practice guidelines on VLUs is that they sift through the massive amount
of data surrounding the management of VLU and provide a
consensus on the evidence, thereby streamlining resources.18
Survey of the Use of Venous Leg Ulcer Guidelines
by Various Health Care Systems. Whereas there are
obvious advantages to the development and use of guidelines on VLU, implementation can be a challenge. Such
“best practices” can be construed as antithetical to the autonomy of clinical practitioners, who make decisions on
the basis of individual patients. These factors may prevent total “buy in” by physicians. Moreover, a set of guidelines can
be interpreted as instituting the rigid perspectives of policy
makers on health care delivery for a speciﬁc disease process.
To determine the current status of implementation of guidelines or a speciﬁc best practices protocol for the management
of VLUs, several large health care systems in the United
States as well as in Canada and Europe were surveyed.18
Vascular units in these facilities were queried on whether a
speciﬁc set of guidelines or protocols was uniformly applied
for two conditions: (1) the treatment of VLU and (2) the
prevention of a post-thrombotic limb. This survey demonstrated that guidelines for VLU care are infrequently used by
a select group of academic health care systems in the United
States (20%), but the majority of single-payer systems in
Canada and Europe (82%) employed a VLU guideline. By
contrast, the use of guidelines for the prevention of the postthrombotic limb after deep venous thrombosis (DVT) was
comparable between the United States and other countries.
This low use of VLU guidelines in the United States
occurred despite the availability of guidelines developed by
various societies. This ﬁnding emphasizes the need for both
a comprehensive and a well-promoted guideline for VLUs.
Efﬁcacy of Current Guidelines for Venous Leg
Ulcer. Whereas there are various treatment protocols for
VLUs, they differ in efﬁcacy, quality, and cost. A more

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

uniform method of treatment that has been agreed on by a
panel of experts and based on clinical evidence for efﬁcacy
may improve therapeutic effectiveness and possibly reduce
cost. Several studies have demonstrated that after the institution of a VLU guideline, there were improvements in both
the ulcer healing and recurrence rate and a subsequent
reduced resource use with lowering of treatment costs,
thereby supporting adoption of VLU guidelines.18 Olson
et al demonstrated that ulcer healing rate was markedly
improved in a Veterans Hospital population of 155 patients
with VLU if guideline recommendations were followed.
During a 5-year period, patients who received dressings that
provided a moist wound healing environment and compression for 80% of their visits were more likely to heal than those
who did not comply (<80%; relative risk [RR], 2.52; 95%
conﬁdence interval [CI], 1.53-4.16).19 In a combined study
population of patients from the United Kingdom and the
United States, patients who were treated for VLUs by a
treatment protocol had a 2 times and a 6.5 times greater
likelihood of ulcer healing if the guidelines were followed
(P < .01). Moreover, the median costs were reduced with
adherence to VLU guidelines (P < .01).20 Finally, in a longitudinal cross-sectional Swedish study of patients in Skaraborg County (population 254,111), the epidemiology of leg
ulcers and of VLUs in particular was deﬁned in 1988 before
the implementation of a VLU treatment protocol. 21 The
initial point prevalence (proportion with an ulcer at any point
of time, time period usually shorter than 3 months) for open
VLUs was 0.16% and overall (C5 and C6) was 0.5%. Their
protocol for VLU management emphasized early Doppleraided diagnosis, organized care pathways, and especially
surgery for superﬁcial venous incompetence. The effectiveness of the VLU guidelines was judged by the reduction in
the point prevalence of VLUs from 1990 to 2005. The
institution of guidelines and concomitant implementation of
county-wide care plans, based on these guidelines, resulted in
a relative risk for VLU of 46%.22
Objective of SVS and AVF Clinical Practice
Guidelines for Venous Leg Ulcer Management. In
2011, SVS and AVF produced clinical practice guidelines
for the care of patients with varicose veins and associated
venous disease.23 Although there were some elements of
VLU care within this document, most of the emphasis of
this guideline was on varicose vein management. In 2012,
SVS and AVF clinical practice guidelines addressing early
thrombus removal strategies for acute venous thrombosis
were published.24 Again, whereas there is some crossover
regarding the impact of early venous thrombosis on
restored venous patency, potential preserved valvular
function, and decreased post-thrombotic morbidity, there
was little direct attention on VLUs. The objective of the
current SVS and AVF clinical practice guidelines is to focus
on complete management of VLUs at all levels of care
based on strength and quality of supporting evidence to
guide speciﬁc recommendations. Combined with these
other SVS and AVF clinical practice guidelines, a more
complete evidence-based strategy is available for management of patients with chronic venous disease.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

METHODOLOGY OF VENOUS LEG ULCER
GUIDELINES
The Institute of Medicine, in Clinical Practice Guidelines We Can Trust, has deﬁned clinical practice guidelines
as “systematically developed statements to assist the practitioner and patient decisions about appropriate healthcare
for speciﬁc clinical circumstances.”25 The underlying principle is to use evidence-based medicine to the greatest
extent to develop these guidelines so that the assessment
of the optimal treatment plan is based on the best current
available knowledge. Evidence-based medicine allows one
to assess the statistical strength of a treatment or intervention and, most important, reduces bias in evaluating a
particular therapy.26 Bias is deﬁned as the predisposition
of prejudice toward either the experimental or control
group, which can lead to either an overestimation or an underestimation of the true beneﬁts and harm of the intervention.27 This method reduces uncertainty, which is the
largest single cause of misinterpretation of data.28 This
process has been further stated in the recent Institute of
Medicine document: “Hence, critically appraised and synthesized scientiﬁc evidence has become fundamental to
clinical practice. At the same time, and particularly under
conditions of uncertainty regarding optimal decisions,
clinician experiential knowledge and skill (the “art of medicine”) and patient values and preferences remain essential
contributors to quality healthcare practice, in a complex
interplay with science.”25
The Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee was organized through cooperation between the SVS and AVF.
The Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee was divided
into six sub-committee sections each headed by a chair:
diagnosis; compression; surgery/endovascular; wound
care; ancillary; and prevention. The overall committee
then developed a series of key clinical questions to guide
the overall approach for the guideline document: (1)
What is the best treatment for active (CEAP C6) venous ulcer? (2) What is the best treatment for healed venous ulcer
(CEAP C5)? (3) What is the best method for preventing
recurrence of venous ulcers? and (4) Can progression
from CEAP C4 to CEAP C6/C5 be prevented? The
Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee addressed the optimal
approach to be used for their speciﬁc section from four general approaches: (1) de novo development, in which a
completely novel recommendation is developed from a systematic and meta-analysis review of the literature; (2) build
on existing guidelines with a complementary full-literature
search update; (3) adapt guidelines from existing guidelines;
and (4) total adoption of existing guidelines.18 The need for
a systematic and meta-analysis review was determined by
each section team and then agreed on by the entire committee. Each section was categorized by the type of guideline
development required. All guidelines were developed by
building on existing guidelines with a complementary literature search by the section sub-committee.
In this process of guideline development for VLUs, the
Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee also reviewed prior

O’Donnell et al 13S

published consensus documents and the AVF report from
the 2006 Venous Summit and the 2009 Paciﬁc Vascular
Symposium, whose purpose was to reduce the incidence
of venous ulcer during the next decade by 50%.29 In a previous systematic review of recently published venous ulcer
guidelines, 14 venous ulcer guidelines were identiﬁed
worldwide.18 This review showed that there was a high degree of agreement among the 14 VLU guidelines on recommendations for compression (72%), dressings (72%),
pentoxifylline (73%), prevention of recurrence by belowknee stockings (70%), and surgery (82%). There was a
low proportion of agreement in the areas of diagnosis, clinical evaluation, and venous Doppler and duplex ultrasound;
in elements of wound care: measurement of the wound,
washing of the wound, débridement, and speciﬁc type of
wound dressing; and ﬁnally in adjunctive measures: the
use of skin grafts and physical therapy to promote ankle
mobility with enhancement of the calf muscle pump.
Several areas of “controversy” were identiﬁed that had
not been particularly addressed in previous guidelines:
new innovative, less invasive VLU therapies; the role of iliac
obstruction and occlusion with the need for diagnosis by
intravascular ultrasound and subsequent monitoring of
stenting by this technique; when and by what methods
to treat perforators; the need for physical therapy to promote ankle mobility and function of the calf muscle
pump; the role of advanced dressings; and preventing progression to VLU. These areas received special attention in
review for the current guidelines.
The surgery/endovascular and compression sections
were selected for a de novo development of speciﬁc guideline recommendations based on several of these key questions. For additional systematic review involving these
critical areas, the Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee
commissioned an independent group of researchers to
conduct two systematic reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of different compression strategies and endovascular
and open surgical approaches. The Committee helped
develop a priori the protocols of these reviews in terms of
outcome selection and criteria for including studies with
additional analysis by the Knowledge and Evaluations
Research Unit at the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, Minn).30,31
In the literature review, several processes were used to
minimize heterogeneity:
- Languagedall would be included.
- Type of Studies Revieweddrandomized controlled
trials, controlled clinical trials with cohort, and retrospective large observational case series. The studies
should be published in peer-reviewed journals.
- Target Audiencedthis Guideline document is intended for specialists who treat vascular disease and
wounds.
Through an iterative process, the committee developed
guidelines based on the grading of recommendation assessment, development, and evaluation (GRADE) system
(Table I).32,33 The strength of the recommendations is

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

14S O’Donnell et al

Table I. GRADE recommendations based on level of evidence
Methodologic quality of
supporting evidence

Grade

Description of recommendation

Beneﬁt vs risk

1A

Strong recommendation,
high-quality evidence

Beneﬁts clearly outweigh risk
and burdens, or vice versa

1B

Strong recommendation,
moderate-quality evidence

Beneﬁts clearly outweigh risk
and burdens, or vice versa

1C

Strong recommendation, lowquality or very-low-quality
evidence

Beneﬁts clearly outweigh risk
and burdens, or vice versa

2A

Weak recommendation, highquality evidence

Beneﬁts closely balanced with
risks and burdens

2B

Weak recommendation,
moderate-quality evidence

Beneﬁts closely balanced with
risks and burdens

2C

Weak recommendation, lowquality or very-low-quality
evidence

Uncertainty in the estimates of
beneﬁts and risk, and
burdens; Risk, beneﬁt, and
burdens may be closely
balanced

RCTs without important
limitations or overwhelming
evidence from observational
studies
RCTs with important
limitations (inconsistent
results, methodologic ﬂaws,
indirect, or imprecise) or
exceptionally strong
evidence from observational
studies
Observational studies or case
series
RCTs without important
limitations or overwhelming
evidence from observational
studies
RCTs with important
limitations (inconsistent
results, methodologic ﬂaws,
indirect, or imprecise) or
exceptionally strong
evidence from observational
studies
Observational studies or case
series

Implications
Strong recommendation, can
apply to most patients in
most circumstances without
reservation
Strong recommendation, can
apply to most patients in
most circumstances without
reservation

Strong recommendation but
may change when higher
quality evidence becomes
available
Weak recommendation, best
action may differ depending
on circumstances or
patients’ or societal values
Weak recommendation, best
action may differ depending
on circumstances or
patients’ or societal values

Very weak recommendations;
Other alternatives may be
reasonable

RCTs, Randomized controlled trials.
Modiﬁed from Guyatt G, Gutterman D, Baumann MH, Addrizzo-Harris D, Hylek EM, Phillips B, et al. Grading strength of recommendations and quality of
evidence in clinical guidelines: Report from an American College of Chest Physicians task force. Chest 2006;129:174-81.

related to (1) the quality of evidence around that recommendation, (2) harm/beneﬁt ratio of the therapy (eg,
minimally invasive intervention with few morbid events
and a possible effect), and (3) patient preference. Every
effort has been made by the committee to make the process
of assigning the strength of the particular recommendation
as transparent as possible. By the GRADE system, the
strength of the recommendation or the extent to which
one can be conﬁdent that adherence to the recommendation will do more good than harm was divided into [1]
strong (we recommend) and [2] weak (we suggest), with
[1] favoring beneﬁt over harm and [2] with beneﬁts
closely balanced by the risk. The “quality of evidence” or
the extent to which conﬁdence in an estimate of effect is
sufﬁcient to support a particular recommendation was
graded [A], [B], or [C] by standard evidence-based methodologic criteria. It is well recognized that there may not
be studies of the highest evidentiary value for the diagnosis
and management of VLUs. When there are no comparable
alternatives to a recommendation or evidence is lacking,
the Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee has relied on
case series supplemented by the best opinion of a panel
of experts, and the recommendation was labeled [BEST

PRACTICE]. Such recommendations are not graded
but deemed by the guideline developers to be necessary
to provide a comprehensive guideline that encompasses
all the details needed for providing care for patients with
venous ulcers.34 In each section and in the comments to
each speciﬁc recommendation, we have attempted to
clearly link the recommendation to the evidence and its
quality and to point out where consensus techniques
have been used. Independent review of GRADE assignments made by the Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee
was also performed by the Knowledge and Evaluations
Research Unit at the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, Minn) to
corroborate proper strength of evidence and quality of evidence for each guideline.
The ﬁnal document was reviewed by the chairman and
vice chairman of the Venous Ulcer Guidelines Committee
and remitted to the entire committee for concurrence.
Additional independent review was obtained from selected
reviewers representing multiple medical specialties vested in
venous ulcer management. The ﬁnal document was then
reviewed and approved by the SVS Document Oversight
Committee and approved by the Executive Committees
of the SVS and AVF.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

DEFINITION—VENOUS LEG ULCER

Guideline 1.1: Venous Leg Ulcer Deﬁnition
We suggest use of a standard deﬁnition of venous
ulcer as an open skin lesion of the leg or foot that
occurs in an area affected by venous hypertension.
[BEST PRACTICE]

Inherent in composing a set of guidelines for VLU is
agreeing on a common deﬁnition of VLU. Current deﬁnitions for VLU vary, as exempliﬁed by the following:
THE AVF CONSENSUS STATEMENT: Venous ulcer is deﬁned as a full-thickness defect of skin, most frequently
in ankle region, that fails to heal spontaneously and is sustained by CVD (duplex studies).35
d SCOTTISH GUIDELINE DEFINITION: Chronic
venous leg ulcer is deﬁned as an open lesion between the
knee and the ankle joint that remains unhealed for at least
four weeks and occurs in the presence of venous disease.
Studies reviewed in this guideline included patients with
venous leg ulcers, irrespective of the method of diagnosis of
venous reﬂux.36
d FRENCH
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM GUIDELINES: A pure venous ulcer is deﬁned, by professional
agreement, as a leg lesion, which has not healed within
a month (except in cases of recurrent ulcers when a diagnosis can be made in less than a month); with a pathophysiology due to ambulatory venous hypertension, which may
be secondary to: reﬂux in superﬁcial, perforating or deep
veins, and/or obstruction of the deep veins, and/or calf
muscle pump dysfunction; where there is no arterial
involvement.37

O’Donnell et al 15S

mixed ulcers often have a different rate of healing and
require additional treatment beyond the appropriate
venous measures for healing to occur and recurrence to
be prevented. The importance of these diagnoses is that
analysis of healing times and effectiveness of surgical
treatment of the venous component requires separation
of pure venous from mixed ulcers to learn whether treatment of the venous component contributes to faster ulcer
healing and early intervention is favored over delayed
treatment.

VENOUS ANATOMY AND PATHOPHYSIOLOGY

d

For the purpose of this Guideline document, we
recommend the following deﬁnition of VLU: A venous
ulcer is an open skin lesion of the leg or foot that occurs
in an area affected by venous hypertension. Venous hypertension is the result of reﬂux or obstruction. This
may occur as a focal phenomenon in the distal extremity
or as a central mechanism, as in iliocaval obstruction or
elevated inferior vena cava pressure from advanced truncal
obesity. The mere existence of either reﬂux or obstruction
does not appear to be the full cause of venous ulcers, with
additional biochemical factors due to activation of the inﬂammatory cascade, which may act as the inciting factor
for appearance of the actual ulcer. Identiﬁcation of these
additional factors awaits further advances in the basic
sciences.
At the clinical level, venous ulcers occur as “pure”
venous causes, when there is directed axial great saphenous vein reﬂux or incompetent perforator reﬂux directly
into the ulcer bed, or as “mixed” venous plus other
causes, as in cases in which arterial ischemia, scarred tissue of the gaiter area, hypersensitive skin, lymphedema,
autoimmune disease, local trauma, infection, and other
processes coexist with the venous hypertension. The

Guideline 2.1: Venous Anatomy Nomenclature
We recommend use of the International Consensus
Committee on Venous Anatomical Terminology for
standardized venous anatomy nomenclature. [BEST
PRACTICE]
The deep veins of the lower limbs are located in the
deep compartment of the leg bound by the muscle fascia
and accompany the main arteries of the leg and pelvis. Superﬁcial veins of the lower limbs are those located between
the deep fascia covering the muscles of the limb and the
skin and primarily included the saphenous system. Perforating veins pass through the deep muscle fascia and connect the superﬁcial to the deep venous system.
Communicating veins connect veins within the same
system.
Whereas there is general agreement that veins of the
lower extremities be divided into superﬁcial, deep, and
perforating venous systems, there have been deﬁciencies
in the past in nomenclature for speciﬁc veins in the leg
within each system. In response to variability in
anatomic terminology used for venous anatomy, standard anatomic venous terminology has been developed
and adopted. For practitioners caring for patients with
VLUs, correct standardized venous nomenclature
should be used as deﬁned by the 2002 International
Consensus Committee on Venous Anatomical Terminology and updated in 2005 as shown in Table II and
Table III.38,39

Guideline 2.2: Venous Leg Ulcer Pathophysiology
We recommend a basic practical knowledge of
venous physiology and venous leg ulcer pathophysiology for all practitioners caring for venous leg ulcers.
[BEST PRACTICE]
Chronic venous disease (CVD) is a debilitating condition that affects millions of individuals worldwide. The
condition can result in varicose veins or advance to severe
skin changes and VLU. Both reﬂux and obstruction account for the pathophysiologic mechanism of CVD;

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

16S O’Donnell et al

Table II. The International Consensus Committee on Venous Anatomical Terminology for standardized venous
anatomy nomenclature of the leg
Superﬁcial venous system

Deep venous system

Perforating venous system

Superﬁcial inguinal veins
External pudendal vein
Superﬁcial circumﬂex iliac vein
Superﬁcial epigastric vein
Superﬁcial dorsal vein (clitoris/penis)
Anterior labial veins
Anterior scrotal veins
Great saphenous vein
Saphenofemoral junction
Terminal valve
Preterminal valve
Anterior accessory great saphenous vein
Posterior accessory great saphenous vein
Superﬁcial accessory great saphenous vein
Anterior thigh circumﬂex vein
Posterior thigh circumﬂex vein
Small saphenous vein
Saphenopopliteal junction
Terminal valve
Preterminal valve
Cranial extension of small saphenous vein
Superﬁcial accessory small saphenous vein
Intersaphenous veins
Lateral venous system
Dorsal venous network of the foot
Dorsal venous arch of the foot
Superﬁcial metatarsal veins (dorsal/plantar)
Plantar venous subcutaneous network
Superﬁcial digital veins (dorsal/plantar)
Lateral marginal vein
Medial marginal vein

Common femoral vein
Femoral vein
Deep femoral vein
Medial circumﬂex femoral vein
Lateral circumﬂex femoral vein
Deep femoral communicating veins
Sciatic vein
Popliteal vein
Genicular venous plexus
Anterior tibial veins
Posterior tibial veins
Fibular or peroneal veins
Sural veins
Soleal veins
Gastrocnemius veins
Medial
Lateral
Intergemellar
Medial plantar veins
Lateral plantar veins
Deep plantar venous arch
Deep metatarsal veins (plantar/dorsal)
Deep digital veins (plantar/dorsal)
Pedal vein

Gluteal perforators
Superior gluteal
Midgluteal
Lower gluteal
Thigh perforators
Medial thigh
Femoral canal
Inguinal
Anterior thigh
Lateral thigh
Posterior thigh
Posteromedial
Sciatic
Posterolateral
Pudendal
Knee perforators
Medial knee
Suprapatellar
Lateral knee
Infrapatellar
Popliteal fossa
Leg (calf) perforators
Medial leg
Paratibial
Posterior tibial
Anterior leg
Lateral leg
Posterior leg
Medial gastrocnemius
Lateral gastrocnemius
Intergemellar
Para-achillean
Ankle perforators
Medial ankle
Anterior ankle
Lateral ankle
Foot perforators
Dorsal foot
Medial foot
Lateral foot
Plantar foot

Modiﬁed from Caggiati A, Bergan JJ, Gloviczki P, Eklof B, Allegra C, Partsch H. Nomenclature of the veins of the lower limb: Extensions, reﬁnements, and
clinical application J Vasc Surg 2005;41:719-24.

however, reﬂux from primary venous disease has a much
higher prevalence in patients presenting with the different
stages of CVD, which might also include venous ulcers.
However, obstruction from secondary venous disease
and valvular reﬂux are associated with a much more rapid
progression of disease and a higher rate of progression to
venous ulceration.40-44 Whether reﬂux or obstruction is
the cause of the patient’s clinical presentation and symptoms is unclear; both conditions lead to increased ambulatory venous pressure. The fundamental basis for CVD
and venous ulceration is inﬂammation within the venous
circulation that is subjected to increased hydrostatic pressure resulting in increased ambulatory venous pressure.45
The inﬂammation involves leukocytes (in particular

macrophages and monocytes), inﬂammatory modulators
and chemokines, cytokine expression, growth factors,
metalloproteinase activity, and many regulatory pathways
that perpetuate inﬂammation.46-48
The pathophysiologic process of primary venous
disease is a complex entity with multifaceted stages
leading to the dilated tortuous, valve-insufﬁcient varicose veins, venous hypertension, and the associated
clinical manifestations seen with CVD. The pathophysiologic mechanism of secondary venous disease involves
inﬂammation, thrombosis, recanalization resulting in
venous wall damage and dilation, and valve insufﬁciency. The clinical picture is that of the postthrombotic syndrome (PTS) and can comprise pain,

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 17S

Table III. The International Consensus Committee on
Venous Anatomical Terminology for standardized venous
anatomy nomenclature of the pelvis
Main collector

Draining veins

Plexus and peripheral
veins

Inferior vena Ovarian/testicular veins
Pampiniform plexus
cava
Common iliac Median sacral vein
Sacral venous plexus
vein
Iliolumbar vein
Internal iliac (hypogastric)
External iliac
Inferior
Superior rectal vein
External rectal plexus
mesenteric Middle rectal vein
Internal rectal plexus
vein
Inferior rectal vein
Superior gluteal vein
Inferior gluteal vein
Lateral sacral vein
Internal iliac Internal pudendal vein
Deep perineal veins
vein
Obturator veins
Superﬁcial perineal
Vesical veins
veins
Uterine veins
Deep dorsal veins of
Vaginal veins
clitoris/penis
Deep veins of clitoris/
penis
Urethral bulb veins
Pudendal plexus
Vesical/prostatic
plexus
Uterine plexus
Vein of the broad
ligament
Vaginal plexus
External iliac Pubic veins (accessory
vein
obturator veins)
Sovrapubic veins
Inferior epigastric vein
Deep circumﬂex iliac
vein
Modiﬁed from Caggiati A, Bergan JJ, Gloviczki P, Eklof B, Allegra C,
Partsch H. Nomenclature of the veins of the lower limb: Extensions, reﬁnements, and clinical application J Vasc Surg 2005;41:719-24.

edema, skin changes, and VLUs. Failure for recanalization is a risk for development of PTS. When the mean
lysis time was reduced, the risk of reﬂux was signiﬁcantly reduced, especially in the femoral, popliteal,
and deep femoral veins, a critical parameter for preserving valve function.49 From a basic science perspective,
venous thrombosis and resolution involve important
factors including microparticles, P-selectin, coagulation
cascade and ﬁbrin, macrophages, adhesion molecules,
vascular endothelial growth factor, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), inﬂammatory cytokines and interleukins, chemokines, plasmin, and plasminogen activators
and inhibitors, all of which affect the vein wall and its
compliance, including valvular function.50,51
Several epidemiologic studies have assessed the associated risk factors. Certainly, genetic and environmental
factors inﬂuence the predisposition to and perpetuation
of primary venous disease. Some important observations

are a family history, female gender, pregnancy, estrogen,
prolonged standing, sitting postures, and obesity. Genetic
conditions, such as Klippel-Trénaunay syndrome, cerebral
autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts
and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) and FOXC2 gene
mutations, desmulin dysregulation, and Ehlers-Danlos
syndrome, display early onset of varicose veins.46,52 However, most individuals with primary venous disease do not
have these genetic conditions, and a speciﬁc gene leading
to primary venous disease and varicose veins has not been
identiﬁed, although it appears that the trait is autosomal
dominant with variable penetrance.52,53 Further studies
have focused on genetic polymorphism in populations
with CVD in the development and healing potential of
venous ulcers.54 Hemochromatosis C282Y (HFE) gene
mutation and certain factor XIII V34L gene variants
have been demonstrated in patients with CVD and varicose veins and may have long-term implications for
increased risk of the more severe forms of CVD as well
as the size of venous ulcers.55,56 Factor XIII is an important cross-linking protein that plays a key role during ulcer healing.57 HFE and factor XIII genes were also
evaluated in predicting VLU healing after superﬁcial
venous surgery in patients with CVD. It was demonstrated that speciﬁc factor XIII genotypes had favorable
ulcer healing rates, whereas the HFE gene mutation,
despite its importance in venous ulcer risk, had no inﬂuence on healing time.58
It is clear from biochemical, immunohistochemical,
and functional studies that both the vein wall and the
valve are involved in the primary events leading to venous
disease. Whether the vein wall changes precede valve
insufﬁciency or the valve insufﬁciency causes wall distention and wall changes is less clear.46 More important, evidence demonstrates that both vein wall and vein valve
are pathologically altered to cause primary venous disease. The perturbation in the microcirculation is a critical
component in the pathophysiologic process of CVD. The
endothelium is a key regulator of vascular tone, hemostasis, and coagulation. Injury, infection, immune diseases,
diabetes, genetic predisposition, environmental factors,
smoking, and atherosclerosis all have an adverse effect
on the endothelium, which in turn must compensate to
prevent further injury and maintain integrity of the
vascular wall. In CVD, the sine qua non is persistent
elevated ambulatory venous pressure. The effect on the
microcirculation begins with altered shear stress on the
endothelial cells, causing endothelial cells to release vasoactive agents and to express E-selectin, inﬂammatory
molecules, chemokines, and prothrombotic precursors.59,60 Mechanical forces, low shear stress, and stretch
are sensed by the endothelial cells through intercellular
adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1, CD54) and the mechanosensitive transient receptor potential vanilloid channels
that are present in the endothelium.60,61 It is well known
that patients with CVD have increased expression of
ICAM-1, which is expressed on endothelial cells and

18S O’Donnell et al

activates the recruitment of leukocytes and initiates
endothelial transmigration, setting up an inﬂammatory
cascade.62,63 Initiating events likely involve altered shear
stress and mechanical stress forces on the endothelium
and its glycocalyx (a glycosaminoglycan on the surface
of endothelial cells); perturbations in nitric oxide production, in vasoactive substance release, and in the expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1,
macrophage inﬂammatory protein 1b, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1, CD106), L-selectins and Eselectins, and ICAM-1, with recruitment of leukocytes
leading to leukocyte transmigration into the vein wall
and valve, set up an inﬂammatory cascade and production of several cytokines (transforming growth factor
[TGF]-b1, tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-a, interleukin1) and increased expression of MMPs.48,60 In addition,
the endothelial glycocalyx is an important structure that
prevents leukocyte adhesion, inﬂammation, and thrombosis. However, altered shear stress and mechanical
forces on the vein wall cause leukocyte adhesion, and
inﬂammation leads to injury and loss of the glycocalyx.64,65 A key component of inﬂammation and in the
VLU is the expression of MMP and cytokines, which
have signiﬁcant effects on the vein wall and venous valve,
the endothelium, and probably the glycocalyx and surrounding tissues, including destruction of the dermis
with eventual skin changes and ulcer formation.48
MMPs can be released as a result of mechanical stretch
(and hence during conditions of venous hypertension)
and have signiﬁcant effects on the endothelium, venous
smooth muscle, and adventitia.66,67 MMPs have been
demonstrated in rat venous tissue to cause venous dilation by several mechanisms, including hyperpolarization
and inhibition of extracellular calcium mobilization,
which are tightly regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor
(HIF).68-70 In a study evaluating varicose veins in CVD
patients, it was determined that HIF-1a and HIF-2a
transcriptional factors were overexpressed compared
with control nonvaricose veins, suggesting that the HIF
pathway may be associated with several pathophysiologic
changes in the venous wall leading to venous hypertension and that hypoxia may be a feature contributing to
the pathogenesis of varicose veins.70
MMPs have been found to be present in high quantities in VLUs and the associated wound ﬂuid, and there
is a correlation of increased expression of proteinase activity with poor healing. The regulation of MMP production and function, although not fully understood, is likely
to be linked to cytokines, urokinase plasminogen activator, EMMPRIN (extracellular MMP inducer
CD147), platelet-derived growth factor AA, and
mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways.71-82 Importantly, the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways in
venous ulcer ﬁbroblast have been demonstrated to overexpress P38, a negative modulator of cell proliferation
causing growth arrest, which can also be upregulated
with the cytokines TNF-a and interleukin-1. The expression of P38 can be suppressed, leading to ﬁbroblast

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

growth, by treatment with ﬁbroblast growth factor.48,62
Cytokines have important roles at different stages of
CVD, beginning with inﬂammation, with expression in
the interstitial space and in the venous ulcer wound
bed.48 In a nonrandomized evaluation of various cytokine levels and venous ulcer healing in patients undergoing compression therapy, it was determined that
untreated ulcers typically display high levels of proinﬂammatory cytokines, including several interleukins, TNF-a,
and interferon-g. After 4 weeks of compression therapy,
the levels of proinﬂammatory cytokines decreased significantly and the wounds began to heal. After compression,
levels of TGF-b1 increased signiﬁcantly as the ulcers
improved. When speciﬁc cytokine levels were related to
the percentage of healing, it was found that those with
higher levels of proinﬂammatory cytokines including
interleukin-1 and interferon-g healed signiﬁcantly better
than those with lower levels of these cytokines before
compression.83 As a result of venous hypertension,
inﬂammation, and remodeling, a key feature takes place
in the postcapillary venule where the ﬁbrin cuff, a complex process involving ﬁbrin and collagen deposition, is
formed. The result is a major abnormality in dermal
microcirculation with many components forming the
postcapillary cuff, including collagen I and III, ﬁbronectin, vitronectin, laminin, tenascin, ﬁbrin, TGF-b1,
and a2-macroglobulin.48,84 Although the exact mechanisms and reasons for development of the ﬁbrin cuff are
unknown, the chemical and structural changes in the
postcapillary venule are thought to be in response to
changes in shear stress and elevated venous pressures,
which probably lead to progressive dermal changes and
ulceration. Structural proteins have been analyzed in varicose veins from patients with CVD, with the important
ﬁnding that overall collagen is increased and both elastin
and laminin are decreased.85 When the collagen was
examined in smooth muscle from varicose veins, the
consistent ﬁnding was that there was a signiﬁcant
decrease of collagen type III and increased type I, and
the same biochemical proﬁle was also observed in the
dermal ﬁbroblasts from varicose vein patients.85,86 These
ﬁndings indicate a systemic condition with strong genetic
inﬂuences, and because collagen I confers rigidity
whereas collagen III is involved in the extensibility of a
tissue, modiﬁcation of the collagen I/III ratio might
contribute to the weakness and the decreased elasticity
of varicose veins. Interestingly, the transcription of
collagen III is normal in smooth muscle cells from varicose veins and the activity of MMP-3 is increased, leading
to post-translational modiﬁcation of collagen type III;
these events are reversible when MMP-3 is inhibited
in vitro.87 MMPs are an important step in the development of primary venous disease; their implications are
in early events affecting endotheliumesmooth muscle interactions and venodilation as well as in late events, with
extracellular matrix degradation, structural vein wall
changes and ﬁbrosis, and tissue damage leading to venous
ulceration.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

Venous microvalves have recently been identiﬁed
both in control specimens and in patients with
CVD.88 The interesting aspect of that study is a system
of sequentially smaller generations of tributaries leading
to small venous networks, with competent and incompetent microvalves. The regions are divided into six generations before reaching the small venous network. In
regions where incompetence existed in microvalves out
to the third-generation tributary (the boundary), the
resin (resin injected by retrograde corrosion casting)
was able to penetrate deeper into the microvenous networks of the dermis. In limbs with varicose veins and
venous ulcers, reﬂux into the small venous networks
and capillary loops was more extensive with more dense
networks and greater tortuosity. In addition to superﬁcial axial saphenous vein insufﬁciency, microvalve insufﬁciency also existed, and once it compromised the
third-generation set of microvalves, there was a greater
risks for the development of dermal venous ulceration.
These ﬁndings may help explain why some patients
with long-standing varicose veins do not develop venous
ulcers because the microvalves may be intact at the
third-generation network, preventing clinical deterioration. In addition, these ﬁndings may explain why skin
changes consistent with venous disease (hyperpigmentation and even small skin ulceration) are seen clinically in
patients with normal ﬁndings on duplex ultrasound of
the superﬁcial, deep, and perforator venous systems.
Further research on the factors responsible for initiating
the altered shear stress and stretch on vein walls will
make it possible to have speciﬁc pharmaceutical targets
to restore the integrity of the microcirculation, to treat
the spectrum of CVD, and to prevent progression of
VLUs.
Metabolic abnormalities may be critical to venous
dysfunction and lead to disease. Metabonomics is the
study of metabolism in biologic systems in response to
pathophysiologic stimuli and genetic modiﬁcations. In
patients with varicose veins, there are signiﬁcant differences in three important metabolic products; creatine,
lactate, and myoinositol metabolites are increased and
amounts of lipid metabolites are lower compared with
nonvaricose control veins.89 Analysis of the cellular
metabolism in varicose veins, with signature end products, reﬂects the metabolism of the tissue and provides
key information to the disease processes. Further
research in this exciting ﬁeld is necessary to have a better understanding of the processes leading to CVD and
to determine whether patients with venous ulcers have
certain characteristic metabolic proﬁles that will allow
improved targeted therapy in both the prevention and
active treatment of CVD and VLUs. Another potential
mechanism for the development of CVD and VLUs is
hypoxia in the dermis and apoptosis of the vein wall;
however, studies evaluating these pathophysiologic alterations are more likely to be simple associations,
with signiﬁcant variability in results and therefore
inconclusive.90,91

O’Donnell et al 19S

CLINICAL EVALUATION

Guideline 3.1: Clinical Evaluation
We recommend that for all patients with suspected
leg ulcers ﬁtting the deﬁnition of venous leg ulcer, clinical evaluation for evidence of chronic venous disease be
performed. [BEST PRACTICE]

For a leg ulcer to be classiﬁed as a VLU, there needs to
be clinical manifestations consistent with CVD. Clinical
evaluation should differentiate primary, secondary, or
congenital venous problems and establish presence or
absence of venous reﬂux, obstruction, or both. A thorough
medical history should be performed to identify symptoms
potentially related to venous disease, including extremity
pain, burning aching, throbbing, cramps, heaviness, itching, tiredness, fatigue, and restless legs. Venous symptoms
are usually exacerbated by limb dependency and relieved by
rest or elevation. Medical history should also include risk
factor assessment for venous disease, including age, body
mass index, prior venous thromboembolism, family history
of venous thromboembolism, family history of varicose
veins, episodes of superﬁcial thrombophlebitis, spontaneous venous rupture, prior use of compression therapy,
prior venous operative interventions, use of venotonic
medications, presence of other systemic diseases associated
with leg wounds, and other possible associated medical factors that may contribute to nonhealing leg wounds. Physical examination for signs of venous disease should include
inspection for telangiectasia, varicose veins, edema, chronic
venous skin changes (skin discoloration, inﬂammation,
eczema, hyperpigmentation, malleolar ﬂair, corona phlebectatica, atrophie blanche, lipodermatosclerosis), healed
ulcer, and active ulcer; palpation for varicosity, palpable
venous cord, tenderness, induration, edema, and pulses;
auscultation for bruit and reﬂux; and evaluation of ankle
mobility.92-96

Guideline 3.2: Nonvenous Causes of Leg Ulcers
We recommend identiﬁcation of medical conditions
that affect ulcer healing and other nonvenous causes of
ulcers. [BEST PRACTICE]

Differentiation of venous from nonvenous leg ulcers
is important before initiation of therapy. In a deﬁned
Swedish population, prevalence of active leg ulcers was
0.31%, with 54% classiﬁed as venous and 46% nonvenous.97 In a population-based study from Germany
including 31,619 patients, venous reﬂux was the causative
factor in 47.6%, arterial insufﬁciency in 14.5%, and combined arterial and venous reﬂux in 17.6%. Rarer causes
included vasculitis (5.1%), exogenous factors (3.8%), pyoderma gangrenosum (3.0%), infection (1.4%), neoplasia

20S O’Donnell et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Table IV. Differential diagnosis for leg ulcers
Vascular disease
- Venous: post-thrombotic syndrome, varicose veins, chronic venous reﬂux
- Arterial: peripheral arterial occlusive disease, hypertension, arteriovenous ﬁstulas, arterial thrombosis, embolism, dysplasia,
thromboangiitis obliterans, aneurysm
- Lymphatic: lymphedema
- Microangiopathy: diabetes mellitus, livedoid vasculopathy
- Vasculitis
- Hypertensive arteriolopathy
Neuropathic
- Peripheral neuropathy: diabetes mellitus, alcohol, medication, hereditary
- Central neuropathy: tabes dorsalis, myelodysplasia, syringomyelia, spina biﬁda, poliomyelitis, multiple sclerosis
Metabolic
- Diabetes mellitus, gout, prolidase deﬁciency, Gaucher disease, amyloidosis, calciphylaxis, porphyria, hyperhomocysteinemia
Hematologic
- Sickle cell anemia, thalassemia, polycythemia vera, leukemia, thrombocythemia, lymphoma, myeloplastic disorders, disorders of coagulation factors (factors I-XIII), coagulation inhibitors (antithrombin III, activated protein C resistance, protein C and S), or ﬁbrinolysis
factors (tissue plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator inhibitor, plasmin)
Autoimmune
- Rheumatoid arthritis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, polyarteritis nodosa, Wegener granulomatosis, Churg-Strauss syndrome, systemic lupus
erythematosus, Sjögren syndrome, scleroderma, Behçet disease, cryoglobulinemia
Exogenous
- Heat, cold, pressure, ionizing radiation, chemical, allergens, trauma
Neoplasia
- Basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma (Marjolin ulcer), malignant melanoma, angiosarcoma, cutaneous lymphoma, papillomatosis cutis carcinoides, keratoacanthoma
Infection
- Bacterial: furuncles, ecthyma, mycobacterioses, syphilis, erysipelas, anthrax, diphtheria, chronic vegetative pyodermia, tropical ulcer
- Viral: herpes, variola virus, cytomegaly
- Fungal: sporotrichosis, histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis
- Protozoal: leishmaniasis
Medication
- Hydroxyurea, leﬂunomide, methotrexate, halogens, coumarin, vaccinations, ergotamine, inﬁltration cytostatic agents
Genetic defect
- Klinefelter syndrome, Felty syndrome, TAP1 mutation, leukocyte adhesion deﬁciency, inherited hypercoagulable factors
Skin disorder
- Pyoderma gangrenosum, necrobiosis lipoidica, sarcoidosis, perforating dermatosis, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, papulosis maligna
atrophicans, bullous skin diseases
Modiﬁed from Dissemond J, Korber A, Grabbe S. Differential diagnosis of leg ulcers. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2006;4:627-34.

(1.1%), calciphylaxis (1.1%), and drug induced (1.1%).98
Other medical conditions that can cause leg ulcers and
affect ulcer healing should also be identiﬁed. Differential
diagnosis of possible causes for leg ulcers is shown in
Table IV.99-101

Guideline 3.3: Wound Documentation
We recommend serial venous leg ulcer wound measurement and documentation. [BEST PRACTICE]

Serial VLU wound measurement and documentation
are important to determine baseline markers and effect of
subsequent treatment measures on healing parameters.
Documentation should include number and position of
ulcers on the leg. Wound measurements should be
made for each VLU, including area, perimeter, and
depth, with additional descriptors of wound edge parameters, wound base quality, drainage, and infection.

Adjuncts for standardization of ulcer documentation,
including wound planimetry, digital photography, and
digital planimetry software, are recommended.102-113

Guideline 3.4: Wound Culture
We suggest against routine culture of venous leg ulcers and only to obtain wound culture specimens when
clinical evidence of infection is present. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
There is no evidence to support routine microbiology
surface cultures of VLU in the absence of clinical signs of
infection as these wounds are usually colonized by multiple
micro-organisms. If there are no clinical signs of infection
and the wound is responding to treatment, there is no indication to culture the wound.114-118
For patients with VLUs who develop associated clinical
signs of infection, such as fever, leukocytosis, worsening

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

pain, cellulitis, purulence, increased exudate, malodor, discolored friable granulation tissue, bioﬁlm, tissue necrosis,
or ulcer progression, microbiologic cultures are recommended. Microbiology cultures can be obtained from
wound surface or wound drainage by validated quantitative bacteriology swab methods with reproducible reliability compared with deep wound tissue biopsy and
culture. Molecular techniques using polymerase chain reaction analysis may improve pathogen identiﬁcation over
standard swab culture methods.119,120 Deep wound tissue
cultures should be reserved for wounds colonized with
multiple micro-organisms when the bacterial pathogen is
not clear from surface cultures, for bioﬁlm infections, or
for recurrent or persistent infection despite appropriate
antimicrobial therapy.121-125

Guideline 3.5: Wound Biopsy
We recommend wound biopsy for leg ulcers that do
not improve with standard wound and compression
therapy after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment and for all ulcers with atypical features. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
When VLUs do not respond to standard wound and
compression therapy, contributing factors should be considered, including infection and possible misdiagnosis. Whereas
evidence does not support an absolute time frame, most evidence and clinical practice guidelines suggest tissue biopsy
considerations within 4 to 6 weeks of nonresponsiveness
to standard treatment. The biopsy specimen should be obtained from several sites, including the wound edge and central provisional matrix. Another consideration for tissue
biopsy independent of time frame is differentiation of other
possible nonvenous causes for leg ulcer. Although malignancy is rare, for any VLU with atypical features, wound tissue biopsy should also be performed.126-128 Although
wound tissue biopsy provides valuable histologic differentiation, additional tissue analysis to include inﬂammatory cytokines and MMPs is still under investigation and does not
have current clinical applicability.83,129,130

Guideline 3.6: Laboratory Evaluation
We suggest laboratory evaluation for thrombophilia for patients with a history of recurrent venous
thrombosis and chronic recurrent venous leg ulcers.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Several studies have shown that patients with VLUs
have an increased prevalence of thrombophilia.131-133 This
association is increased in patients with documented thrombotic events, family history of thrombotic events, early-onset
VLU before the age of 50 years, and recurrent or recalcitrant
VLUs.134-136 Evidence supports selective laboratory evaluation for thrombophilia in all patients with VLU and a history

O’Donnell et al 21S

of recurrent venous thrombosis and chronic recurrent
VLUs. Laboratory evaluation for thrombophilia should
include testing for inherited hypercoagulable factors (antithrombin deﬁciency, protein C and protein S deﬁciencies),
factor V Leiden (resulting in activated protein C resistance),
prothrombin G20210A, plasminogen activator inhibitor
type 1 mutations, hyperhomocysteinemia, antiphospholipid
antibodies (anticardiolipin and lupus anticoagulant), and
cryoglobulins and cryoagglutinins.
Guideline 3.7: Arterial Testing
We recommend arterial pulse examination and
measurement of ankle-brachial index on all patients
with venous leg ulcer. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - B]
Because adequate arterial perfusion is needed for
improved healing, it is important to identify the presence
of underlying peripheral arterial disease (PAD).137,138
Approximately 15% to 25% of patients with VLUs will
have a concomitant PAD component.97,98,139,140 Evaluation of possible risk factors for PAD includes male gender,
age, smoking, hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes,
obesity, coexisting cardiovascular disease, stroke, renal
insufﬁciency, hyperhomocysteinemia, and family history
of cardiovascular disease. Symptoms and signs of PAD
include claudication, rest pain, and ischemic ulceration or
necrosis. Key components of the physical examination
include measurement of blood pressure in both arms, cardiac auscultation, leg examination (changes in color, skin
temperature, muscle atrophy, decreased hair growth, hypertrophied nails), and complete pulse examination (palpation for aneurysms; auscultation for bruits in carotid, aorta,
or femoral region; palpation of the radial, ulnar, brachial,
carotid, femoral, popliteal, dorsalis pedis, and posterior
tibial artery pulse). Lower extremity Doppler examination
is standard for patients with suspected PAD. Measurement
of ankle-brachial index (ABI) is performed in the supine
position with a sphygmomanometer cuff placed just above
the ankle and a continuous-wave Doppler probe used to
measure the systolic pressure of the posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis arteries of each leg, which is then normalized to
the higher brachial pressure of either to calculate the ABI for
each leg. ABI is calculated by dividing the systolic ankle pressure by systolic arm pressure. The reproducibility of the ABI
varies, but it is signiﬁcant enough that reporting standards
require a change of 0.15 in an isolated measurement for it
to be considered clinically relevant or >0.10 if it is associated
with a change in clinical status. The typical cutoff point for
diagnosis of PAD is ABI #0.90 at rest, with ABI #0.50 usually corresponding to critical limb ischemia. In patients with
diabetes, renal insufﬁciency, or other diseases that cause
vascular calciﬁcation, tibial vessels at the ankle become
noncompressible, leading to a false elevation of the ankle
pressure and ABI. In these patients, additional noninvasive
diagnostic testing, such as pulse volume recordings or toe
pressure measurement, should be performed to evaluate
for PAD. For ABI #0.90, referral should be made to a

22S O’Donnell et al

vascular specialist for further arterial evaluation including
comprehensive lower extremity arterial Doppler study, arterial imaging, and possible revascularization consideration
before VLU compression or operative therapy.141
Guideline 3.8: Microcirculation Assessment
We suggest against routine microcirculation assessment of venous leg ulcers but suggest selective consideration as an adjunctive assessment for monitoring of
advanced wound therapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
Whereas objective microcirculation assessment by
transcutaneous oxygen, laser Doppler perfusion, and capillary microscopy has shown correlation with healing of
other wounds, there is insufﬁcient evidence showing
beneﬁt for VLUs. Microcirculation assessment may be useful as an adjunct for mixed arterial and VLUs, when there is
concern for adequate microcirculation related to other
medical conditions involving capillary perfusion, or for
monitoring of advanced wound therapy.142-144
Guideline 3.9: Venous Duplex Ultrasound
We recommend comprehensive venous duplex ultrasound examination of the lower extremity in all patients with suspected venous leg ulcer. [GRADE - 1 ;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
For a leg ulcer to be classiﬁed as a VLU, there needs to
be objective documented evidence of venous disease. Ultrasound assessment needs to include evaluation for both
obstructive and reﬂux patterns of venous disease. Whereas
continuous-wave Doppler ultrasonography can be used,
comprehensive color ﬂow venous duplex ultrasound
including B-mode gray-scale imaging, pulsed Doppler sampling, and color ﬂow analysis has improved diagnostic accuracy and reproducibility and is the preferred ﬁrst-line
diagnostic test for all patients with suspected VLU.145-148
Comprehensive venous duplex ultrasound evaluates for
both venous obstruction/DVT and venous reﬂux and includes the following components: direct visualization of
deep, superﬁcial, and perforator venous anatomic segments;
compressibility; phasic venous ﬂow with and without
augmentation maneuvers; and documentation of venous
reﬂux with measurement of valve closure time.149,150
Venous obstruction is present when thrombosis is directly
visualized, noncompressibility of vein segment is present,
phasic venous ﬂow is absent with and without augmentation
maneuvers, and extensive collateral vessels are present
around the segment. To identify valvular incompetence, a
portion of the venous duplex ultrasound examination should
be performed in the upright or standing position. Augmentation maneuvers include Valsalva maneuver for common
femoral vein and saphenofemoral junction and use of
manual or cuff compression/release placed distal to the
point of examination for lower extremity veins below the
femoral junction.151,152 Most studies suggest criteria for
valvular incompetence when valve closure time exceeds

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

$1 second for femoral and popliteal veins and $0.5 second
for great saphenous vein, small saphenous vein, tibial veins,
deep femoral vein, and perforating veins.153 However, use
of $0.5 second for all superﬁcial and deep vein segments
can signiﬁcantly improve the reliability of reﬂux detection.154 Perforator vein is deﬁned as pathologic when directional ﬂow is from deep to superﬁcial, valve closure time is
$0.5 second, vein diameter exceeds 3.5 mm, and location
of perforator is beneath healed or active VLU.155,156
Venous duplex ultrasound not only provides diagnostic
utility but also will identify patterns of venous disease that
may have therapeutic implications.157,158 Because VLUs
are usually associated with multilevel disease affecting the superﬁcial, deep, and perforating veins, better deﬁning these
variable patterns of venous disease is critically important
before any treatment. Evidence supports that 74% to 93%
of all patients with VLUs will have superﬁcial vein involvement, but superﬁcial venous reﬂux will be isolated in only
17% to 54% of the limbs, the remainder of which will have
either isolated or combined associated deep vein incompetence or obstruction or perforator incompetence.159-161
Additional anatomic patterns of axial reﬂux directed to the
bed of the VLU are important to be deﬁned.162
Guideline 3.10: Venous Plethysmography
We suggest selective use of venous plethysmography in the evaluation of patients with suspected
venous leg ulcer if venous duplex ultrasound does not
provide deﬁnitive diagnostic information. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Venous plethysmography (strain-gauge, air, or photoplethysmography) provides additional venous limb physiologic
parameters regarding global venous reﬂux, outﬂow obstruction, and calf muscle pump function and has shown good correlation with venous duplex ultrasound.163-168 Some studies
have shown utility for monitoring of venous functional
changes and assessment of physiologic outcome of surgical
treatments.169-172 However, current evidence does not support a primary role for venous plethysmography as a diagnostic
test for venous disease above venous duplex ultrasound.
Venous plethysmography should be reserved for equivocal
ﬁndings of venous duplex ultrasound examination, for recalcitrant or recurrent VLU, or if additional venous physiologic
testing is required for diagnostic or therapeutic reasons.
Guideline 3.11: Venous Imaging
We suggest selective computed tomography venography, magnetic resonance venography, contrast
venography, and/or intravascular ultrasound in patients with suspected venous leg ulceration if additional
advanced venous diagnosis is required for thrombotic
or nonthrombotic iliac vein obstruction or for operative planning before open or endovenous interventions.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Venous outﬂow obstruction has been underappreciated as a cause of venous hypertension and associated
venous disease because of lack of a noninvasive screening

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

study that reliably identiﬁes the problem.157,173 Venous
duplex ultrasound of the femoral vein may provide indirect
evidence of outﬂow obstruction with monophasic waveforms, loss of respiratory variation in the femoral tracing,
or poor augmentation of the signal with distal limb
compression.174 Although the diagnostic accuracy of
duplex ultrasound may be improved by performing direct
duplex ultrasound examination of iliocaval veins, reliable
and reproducible imaging may be limited by body habitus,
intestinal gas, and operator variability.175 Use of venous
plethysmography for identiﬁcation of venous obstruction
has also been described, but venous plethysmography is
not widely available, limiting its usefulness as a screening
modality.176
For improved diagnostic accuracy, patients with VLU
and suspected thrombotic or nonthrombotic venous
obstruction should undergo additional contrast imaging
with computed tomography venography (CTV) or magnetic resonance venography (MRV).177-179 In one study,
37% of patients with prior healed or active VLUs had evidence of iliocaval venous obstruction >50% and 23%
>80% on CTV or MRV, with a higher propensity in
women, with prior history of DVT, and with evidence of
deep venous reﬂux on duplex ultrasound.180
Whereas screening CTV and MRV may provide additional information about potential venous outﬂow obstruction, diagnosis should be conﬁrmed by contrast
venography and intravascular ultrasound. Imaging with
intravascular ultrasound with cross-sectional views of the
vein and adjacent structures has high diagnostic accuracy
in determining presence of iliocaval thrombus burden or
iliocaval compression due to May-Thurner syndrome or
other adjacent structures, which may have bearing on additional therapeutic options.181-183
Guideline 3.12: Venous Disease Classiﬁcation
We recommend that all patients with venous leg ulcer be classiﬁed on the basis of venous disease classiﬁcation assessment, including clinical CEAP, revised
Venous Clinical Severity Score, and venous diseasee
speciﬁc quality of life assessment. [BEST PRACTICE]
Accurate classiﬁcation of venous disease is critically
important for standardization of venous disease severity
and assessment of treatment effectiveness. Classiﬁcation
systems for reporting of venous disease severity have been
in existence for many years, with recent emphasis on
both patient- and physician-generated assessment tools
that can be used to follow clinically deﬁned end points
and changes over time.
The Clinical class, Etiology, Anatomy, and Pathophysiology (CEAP) classiﬁcation, introduced in 1994 and revised
in 2004, forms the basis for CVD documentation, and should
be used for all patients with VLUs.184-186 The basic CEAP
classiﬁcation (Table V) is a simpliﬁed version of the more
comprehensive CEAP and is recommended for clinical practice, with the more comprehensive CEAP reserved for
research purposes. Whereas the CEAP classiﬁcation system

O’Donnell et al 23S

Table V. Basic CEAP classiﬁcation system
Clinical classiﬁcation
C0 No visible or palpable signs of venous disease
C1 Telangiectases or reticular veins
C2 Varicose veins
C3 Edema
C4a Pigmentation and/or eczema
C4b Lipodermatosclerosis and/or atrophie blanche
C5 Healed venous ulcer
C6 Active venous ulcer
CS Symptoms, including ache, pain, tightness, skin irritation,
heaviness, muscle cramps, as well as other
complaints attributable to venous dysfunction
CA Asymptomatic
Etiologic classiﬁcation
Ec Congenital
Ep Primary
Es Secondary (post-thrombotic)
En No venous etiology identiﬁed
Anatomic classiﬁcation
As Superﬁcial veins
Ap Perforator veins
Ad Deep veins
An No venous location identiﬁed
Pathophysiologic classiﬁcation
Pr Reﬂux
Po Obstruction
Pr,o Reﬂux and obstruction
Pn No venous pathophysiology identiﬁable
Modiﬁed from Eklöf B, Rutherford RB, Bergan JJ, Carpentier PH, Gloviczki P, Kistner RL, et al. Revision of the CEAP classiﬁcation for chronic
venous disorders: Consensus statement. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:1248-52.

is useful to classify stages of venous disease, its components
have been recognized to be relatively static and insufﬁcient
for determining changes in venous disease severity. For
example, a patient presenting with an active VLU will be clinical CEAPe6 but when the ulcer heals can improve at best
only to clinical CEAPe5. Despite this shortcoming, there
has been general acceptance and wide dissemination of
CEAP for both clinical and research purposes, making
CEAP an essential component of venous disease classiﬁcation.
In an effort to improve standardized outcome assessment of venous disease with gradable elements that can
change in response to treatment, the Venous Clinical
Severity Score (VCSS) was introduced in 2000 and revised
in 2010 (Table VI). The VCSS system includes 10 clinical
descriptors (pain, varicose veins, venous edema, skin pigmentation, inﬂammation, induration, number of active ulcers,
duration of active ulceration, size of ulcer, and compressive
therapy use), scored from 0 to 3 (total possible score, 30),
that may be used to assess changes in response to therapy.
VCSS has been shown to have minimal intraobserver and
interobserver variability, and validation with objective venous
parameters has been shown in a few studies.187-192 The more
recent revised VCSS (rVCSS) should be determined on
initial evaluation and then at serial intervals for assessment
of clinical outcome after nonoperative and operative treatment of VLUs and has been shown to be a better tool for
assessing response to treatement.192,193 VCSS $8 indicates
a patient with severe disease at risk for progression and warrants additional diagnostics or treatment.194

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

24S O’Donnell et al

Table VI. Revised Venous Clinical Severity Scoring (VCSS) system
None: 0
Pain or other discomfort (ie,
aching, heaviness, fatigue,
soreness, burning)
Presumes venous origin
Varicose veins
“Varicose” veins must be
$3 mm in diameter to
qualify in the standing
position
Venous edema
Presumes venous origin
Skin pigmentation
Presumes venous origin
Does not include focal
pigmentation over
varicose veins or
pigmentation due to
other chronic diseases
Inﬂammation
More than just recent
pigmentation (ie,
erythema, cellulitis,
venous eczema,
dermatitis)
Induration
Presumes venous origin of
secondary skin and
subcutaneous changes
(ie, chronic edema with
ﬁbrosis, hypodermitis).
Includes white atrophy
and lipodermatoselerosis
Active ulcer number
Active ulcer duration (longest
active)
Active ulcer size (largest
active)
Use of compression therapy

Mild: 1

Moderate: 2

Severe: 3

Occasional pain or other
discomfort (ie, not
restricting regular daily
activities)

Daily pain or other discomfort Daily pain or discomfort
(ie, interfering with but not (ie, limits most regular
preventing regular daily
daily activities)
activities)

Few: scattered (ie, isolated
branch varicosities or
clusters)
Also includes corona
phlebectatica (ankle ﬂare)

Conﬁned to calf or thigh

Involves calf and thigh

Limited to foot and ankle
area

Extends above ankle but
below knee

Extends to knee and above

None
Limited to perimalleolar area Diffuse over lower third
or focal
of calf

Wider distribution above
lower third of calf

Limited to perimalleolar area Diffuse over lower third
of calf

Wider distribution above
lower third of calf

Limited to perimalleolar area Diffuse over lower third
of calf

Wider distribution above
lower third of calf

0
N/A

1
<3 mo

2
>3 mo but <1 y

$3
Not healed for >1 y

N/A

Diameter <2 cm

Diameter 2-6 cm

Diameter >6 cm

0
Not used

1
Intermittent use of stockings

2
Wears stockings most days

3
Full compliance: stockings

Modiﬁed from Vasquez MA, Rabe E, McLafferty RB, Shortell CK, Marston WA, Gillespie D, et al. Revision of the venous clinical severity score:
Venous outcomes consensus statement: Special communication of the American Venous Forum Ad Hoc Outcomes Working Group. J Vasc Surg
2010;52:1387-96.

On the basis of the association of chronic PTS with
VLUs, additional classiﬁcation of PTS should be performed
for all patients with prior DVT. Several PTS scoring systems have been used both to diagnose and to classify
PTS severity, including those described by Villalta,195 Ginsberg,196 Brandjes,197 and Widmer.198 Of these PTS
scoring systems, the Villalta score (Table VII) has the highest degree of validation and has been shown to have excellent interobserver reliability, association with ambulatory
venous pressures, correlation with severity of PTS, and ability to assess change in condition over time.199-205 Evidence
supports use of Villalta scoring in all patients with VLU and
prior documented DVT to determine diagnosis, severity,

and treatment outcomes of PTS, with consensus recommendation to combine Villalta with CEAP for more accurate diagnosis of PTS.206
Additional venous disease evaluation should include
patient-oriented quality of life (QOL) assessment. Both
generic (36-Item Short Form Health Survey [SF-36])
and venous diseaseespeciﬁc (Venous Insufﬁciency Epidemiologic and Economic Study of Quality of Life/Symptoms (VEINES-QOL/Sym) questionnaires, the Chronic
Venous Insufﬁciency Questionnaire (CIVIQ), the Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire (AVVQ), and the Charing Cross Venous Ulceration Questionnaire (CXVUQ))
have been used and validated for patients with venous

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 25S

Table VII. Villalta scoring for post-thrombotic
syndrome
Symptoms and clinical signs
Symptoms
Pain
Cramps
Heaviness
Paresthesia
Pruritus
Clinical signs
Pretibial edema
Skin induration
Hyperpigmentation
Redness
Venous ectasia
Pain on calf compression
Venous ulcer

None

Mild

Moderate

Severe

0
0
0
0
0

1
1
1
1
1

2
2
2
2
2

3
3
3
3
3

0
0
0
0
0
0
Absent

1
1
1
1
1
1

2
2
2
2
2
2

3
3
3
3
3
3
Present

Villalta score $5 or if venous ulcer present: Villalta score of 5-9 mild, 10-14
moderate, and $15 severe.
Modiﬁed from Villalta S, Bagatella P, Piccioli A, Lensing AW, Prins MH,
Prandoni P. Assessment of validity and reproducibility of a clinical scale for
the postthrombotic syndrome [abstract]. Haemostasis 1994;24:158a.

disease.207-214 Evidence supports inclusion of venous
diseaseespeciﬁc QOL more than generic QOL assessment
to be complementary to the more objective provider-based
venous assessment tools. For all patients with VLU, QOL
assessment should be performed with a venous diseasee
speciﬁc instrument to evaluate patient-reported outcome
and severity of CVD.

Guideline 3.13: Venous Procedural Outcome
Assessment
We recommend venous procedural outcome assessment including reporting of anatomic success, venous
hemodynamic success, procedure-related minor and
major complications, and impact on venous leg ulcer
healing. [BEST PRACTICE]
For all patients with VLUs who require venous endovascular or operative intervention, outcome assessment
should be performed to determine success of the procedure
over time. Several surrogate outcome markers have been
described for venous procedures, including anatomic
parameters, venous hemodynamic success, procedurerelated complications, and impact on VLU healing.215
Use of recommended reporting standards and participation
in a venous-based registry can facilitate tracking of venous
procedure outcomes.216 Clinical outcome assessment associated with wound and procedural treatments allows
further determination of comparative effectiveness for
improved VLU healing as mandated by the Institute of
Medicine of the National Academies (http://www.iom.
edu/) and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA).217 In addition, standardized venous outcome
assessment will translate to improved quality care measures
as regulated by quality care organizations, such as the

National Quality Forum (http://www.qualityforum.
org/), the Surgical Care Improvement Project (http://
qualitynet.org/), the Joint Commission (http://www.
jointcommission.org/), and the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality (http://www.ahrq.gov), and
increased potential opportunities for National Institutes
of Health funding for research on venous ulcer prevention
and treatment.3
WOUND CARE
A broad array of products and treatment strategies are
currently marketed for the purpose of managing chronic
wounds related to venous hypertension. It is challenging
to determine which of these therapies have meaningful evidence that shows improvement in patient-centered outcomes, such as pain reduction and wound healing. This
section is organized into general categories related to
wound healing as noted in Table VIII. All of these therapies must be used concurrently with compression therapy
or venous intervention to control the underlying venous
hypertension resulting in ulceration.
Wound Bed Preparation. Wound bed preparation is
deﬁned as the management of the wound to accelerate
endogenous healing and to facilitate the effectiveness of
other therapeutic measures. The aim of wound bed preparation is to convert the molecular and cellular environment
of a chronic wound to that of an acute healing wound.
Included within this framework are (1) débridement, (2)
wound exudate control, and (3) management of surface
bacteria. Once control of the underlying venous hypertension is achieved, a key barrier that inhibits wound healing is
eliminated. Other barriers to healing include bacterial overgrowth or infection, chronic inﬂammation, and necrotic or
nonviable tissue on the wound surface. Control of these
factors must also be achieved to stimulate optimal wound
healing. Management of wound exudate is covered in the
wound dressings section, and bacterial management is
considered in the section on infection control.
Guideline 4.1: Wound Cleansers
We suggest that venous leg ulcers be cleansed
initially and at each dressing change with a neutral,
nonirritating, nontoxic solution, performed with a
minimum of chemical or mechanical trauma. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

Although there is little evidence that the routine use of
a wound cleanser results in improvement of VLU outcomes measures, most patients with VLUs present with signiﬁcant wound exudate and other debris in and around the
wound area that must be cleansed routinely before dressing
application. Numerous cleansing solutions have been
described in this role with reasonable success.218,219 It appears that the main selection factor is to avoid routine use
of a cleanser that would result in toxicity to the viable tissue
in the wound bed.220

26S O’Donnell et al

Table VIII. General categories of wound therapy for
venous leg ulcers
Wound bed preparation
Wound cleansers
Débridement
Surgical débridement
Anesthesia for débridement
Hydrosurgical débridement
Ultrasonic débridement
Enzymatic débridement
Biologic débridement
Nutritional assessment and management
Measurement of wound progress
Wound infection and bacterial control
Wound culture
Indications for culture
Method of wound culture
Management of limb cellulitis
Wound colonization and bacterial bioﬁlms
Treatment of wound infection
Topical antibiotics
Systemic antibiotics
Primary wound dressings
Topical dressing selection
Antimicrobials in topical dressings
Periulcer skin management
Anti-inﬂammatory dressings
Adjunctive wound therapies
Indications for adjunctive therapies
Split-thickness skin grafting
Cellular therapy
Use of cellular therapy
Preparation for cellular therapy
Frequency of cellular therapy application
Negative pressure therapy
Electrical stimulation
Ultrasound therapy

Guideline 4.2: Débridement
We recommend that venous leg ulcers receive thorough débridement at their initial evaluation to remove
obvious necrotic tissue, excessive bacterial burden, and
cellular burden of dead and senescent cells. [GRADE 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest that additional maintenance débridement be performed to
maintain the appearance and readiness of the wound
bed for healing. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE B] We suggest that the health care provider choose
from a number of débridement methods, including
sharp, enzymatic, mechanical, biologic, and autolytic.
More than one débridement method may be appropriate. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Although protocols for management of VLUs usually
recommend wound débridement to remove nonviable tissue
and to reduce bacterial burden, there is a lack of robust evidence that routine wound débridement accelerates wound
healing. Williams et al prospectively studied 28 patients
who underwent débridement for the presence of slough
and nonviable tissue in the VLU bed compared with 27
patients who also had little granulation tissue but no slough
and did not receive débridement.221 Patients treated with
débridement had a signiﬁcantly higher wound size reduction

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

4 weeks after débridement than those who did not. This difference was maintained 20 weeks after débridement. Cardinal
et al reviewed the relationship of débridement to ulcer healing in two prospective RCTs of topical wound treatments on
366 VLUs and 310 diabetic foot ulcers.222 VLUs treated at a
clinic visit with débridement had a signiﬁcantly higher median wound surface area reduction in the week after débridement than did those for which débridement was not
performed. However, débridement frequency per patient
did not statistically correlate to rates of wound closure.
Recommendations to débride nonviable or necrotic tissue from the wound bed are supported by established principles of management of all wounds.223,224 However, the
frequency and method of débridement are not well studied
and have not been well established as related to the incidence of wound closure.225
Guideline 4.3: Anesthesia for Surgical Débridement
We recommend that local anesthesia (topical or local
injection) be administered to minimize discomfort associated with surgical venous leg ulcer débridement. In
selected cases, regional block or general anesthesia may
be required. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
The efﬁcacy of topical anesthesia for débridement of
venous leg ulcers was recently reviewed by the Cochrane
Database.226 They identiﬁed six trials evaluating eutectic
mixture of local anesthetics (EMLA) lidocaine-prilocaine
cream compared with control.227,228 Patients treated with
EMLA had signiﬁcantly lower pain scores than those
treated without topical anesthetic, leading to their conclusion that EMLA is an effective option for this purpose. For
more extensive débridement, local inﬁltrative anesthetic,
regional block, or general anesthesia may be required for
adequate periprocedural pain control.
Guideline 4.4: Surgical Débridement
We recommend that surgical débridement be performed for venous leg ulcers with slough, nonviable tissue, or eschar. Serial wound assessment is important in
determining the need for repeated débridement.
[GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.5 Hydrosurgical Débridement
We suggest hydrosurgical débridement as an alternative to standard surgical débridement of venous leg
ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Guideline 4.6: Ultrasonic Débridement
We suggest against ultrasonic débridement over
surgical débridement in the treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.7: Enzymatic Débridement
We suggest enzymatic débridement of venous leg
ulcers when no clinician trained in surgical débridement is available to débride the wound. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We do not suggest enzymatic débridement over surgical débridement.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

Guideline 4.8: Biologic Débridement
We suggest that larval therapy for venous leg ulcers
can be used as an alternative to surgical débridement.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
No method of débridement has been proved to be superior to surgical methods. However, in some cases, patients may not have ready access to a clinician trained to
perform surgical débridement, or this method may be
less desirable because of comorbid patient conditions or
pain considerations. Hydrosurgical débridement was
found in some studies to shorten the procedural time of
débridement but may be associated with signiﬁcant additional cost.229,230 Hydrosurgical débridement also requires a trained clinician and may be associated with
signiﬁcant periprocedural pain. No measurable beneﬁt of
the use of ultrasound methods to débride wounds has
been reliably demonstrated. Enzymatic débridement,
which does not require a trained clinician for application,
has been found in several studies to remove nonviable tissue from VLU wound beds, but there is no evidence that
this method provides a beneﬁt over surgical débridement.231-233 In clinical trials, larval therapy along with
compression has been shown to be an effective method
of débridement. However, the use of larval therapy did
not increase the rate of healing for necrotic tissue or
slough in leg ulcers compared with ulcers treated with
hydrogel and compression.234,235 Barriers to the use of
larval therapy also include personal hygiene concerns
and personal bias. Recent adaptations have included containing the larvae in a bio-bag, which makes adoption
more feasible to those with these concerns.
Wound Infection and Bacterial Control. The management of bacterial involvement of chronic VLUs is
controversial, with limited high-quality research and contradictory results in the studies available for review. More
robust information is available for the treatment of other
infected chronic wounds, in particular diabetic foot ulcers.
This information may not translate to the treatment of
infected VLUs.
For indications and methods of wound culture, refer to
Guideline 3.4. Although there is general agreement
among experts that wounds with obvious signs of clinical
infection should be treated with systemic antibiotics, there
is no consensus on the management of wounds colonized
with bacteria or bacterial bioﬁlms without signs of systemic
infection. The deﬁnition of a critically colonized wound is
not universally standardized and may vary by the virulence
of the colonizing bacteria. The more recent description of
bacterial bioﬁlms and the multiple species that are typically
cultured from these wounds add another layer of
complexity. Finally, the changing nature of bacterial
behavior over time may render studies performed as
recently as 5 to 10 years ago irrelevant.
Developing technology, which has allowed more
detailed descriptions of the bacteria found existing in the

O’Donnell et al 27S

wound bed, employs methodology such as polymerase
chain reaction analysis. These techniques may allow more
speciﬁc tailored therapy for individual wounds. These
methods, however, have not yet been established to
improve outcomes in the care of VLUs. In this setting,
deﬁnitive guidelines are difﬁcult to establish, and treatment
must be individualized on the basis of local bacterial epidemiology and patient conditions.
Guideline 4.9: Management of Limb Cellulitis
We recommend that cellulitis (inﬂammation and
infection of the skin and subcutaneous tissue) surrounding the venous leg ulcer be treated with systemic
gram-positive antibiotics. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - B]
Limb cellulitis is characterized by inﬂammation and
infection of the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and lymphatic
ﬂuid and is most commonly due to streptococci or
staphylococci, but it will occasionally include other species. There are numerous studies in the medical literature evaluating various systemic antibiotic regimens for
the treatment of lower extremity cellulitis,236-238 also
supported by a Cochrane review,239 with recommendation for initial treatment with antibiotics directed at
gram-positive bacteria, reserving broader coverage for
unresponsiveness.

Guideline 4.10: Wound Colonization and Bacterial
Bioﬁlms
We suggest against systemic antimicrobial treatment of venous leg ulcer colonization or bioﬁlm
without clinical evidence of infection. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
The data available concerning the treatment of bacterial colonization of VLUs are insufﬁcient and contradictory. Sibbald et al found that high bacterial counts in
VLUs were associated with delayed healing.240 Improved
healing was associated with reduction in bacterial counts.
Davies et al suggested that bacterial density was predictive
of nonhealing of VLUs.122 However, Lantis and Gendics
found that when they treated VLUs with high bacterial
counts with topical antibiotics, bacterial counts decreased
but there was no correlation with improvement in wound
size.241 Finally, Moore et al reported that the speciﬁc bacterial species present or the number of species of bacteria
present did not relate to healing outcomes.118 They
concluded that their data supported no speciﬁc treatment
of wound bacteria regardless of the type or quantity. On
the basis of these contradictory ﬁndings, we are unable to
generate useful supporting clinical guidelines for treatment
of wound colonization or bioﬁlm without clinical evidence
of infection.

28S O’Donnell et al

Guideline 4.11: Treatment of Wound Infection:
We suggest that venous leg ulcers with >1 3 106
CFU/g of tissue and clinical evidence of infection be
treated with antimicrobial therapy. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We suggest antimicrobial
therapy for virulent or difﬁcult to eradicate bacteria
(such as beta-hemolytic streptococci, pseudomonas,
and resistant staphylococcal species) at lower levels
of colony-forming units per gram of tissue. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We suggest a combination of mechanical disruption and antibiotic therapy as most likely to be successful in eradicating
venous leg ulcer infection. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 4.12: Systemic Antibiotics
We recommend that venous leg ulcers with clinical
evidence of infection be treated with systemic antibiotics guided by sensitivities performed on wound culture. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Oral antibiotics are preferred initially, and the duration
of antibiotic therapy should be limited to 2 weeks unless persistent evidence of wound infection is present.
[GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Although there is a lack of clinical studies evaluating
the speciﬁc treatment of infected VLUs, available evidence supports systemic antibiotic treatment of patients
with clinical evidence of infection and ulcers containing
> 1  106 CFU/g of bacteria on quantitative culture.242
Aggressive mechanical débridement of infected VLUs
whenever possible is also suggested, although there is a
lack of high-quality evidence indicating that débridement improves results in the treatment of infected
ulcers.
Guideline 4.13: Topical Antibiotics for Infected
Wounds
We suggest against use of topical antimicrobial
agents for the treatment of infected venous leg ulcers.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
There is a lack of evidence suggesting that topical antibiotics have a positive effect on the treatment of infected
VLUs or on the healing of noninfected VLUs. Manizgate
et al reported that in a prospective study of two silverreleasing dressings, neither dressing had an impact on the
level of bioburden identiﬁed in treated VLUs.243
Conversely, in another study, Lantis and Gendics found
that a sustained-release silver sulfadiazine foam reduced
the level of bacteria cultured from infected VLUs, but there
was no correlation with an improvement in wound size.241
A Cochrane review on the use of topical silver for infected
VLUs concluded that there is insufﬁcient evidence to
recommend the use of silver-containing dressings or topical
agents for treatment of infected or contaminated chronic
wounds.244

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Primary Wound Dressings
Guideline 4.14: Topical Dressing Selection
We suggest applying a topical dressing that will
manage venous leg ulcer exudate and maintain a moist,
warm wound bed. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We suggest selection of a primary wound
dressing that will absorb wound exudate produced by
the ulcer (alginates, foams) and protect the periulcer
skin. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
There is insufﬁcient evidence suggesting that a speciﬁc
primary dressing that contacts the wound can result in a
higher rate of wound closure. Most VLUs produce large
amounts of exudate. This ﬂuid contains high concentrations of proteases and inﬂammatory cytokines that may
damage surrounding healthy skin.245 Removal of wound
drainage from the wound bed will reduce the inﬂammatory
environment that prohibits wound healing. We recommend use of dressings that will manage wound exudate
and maintain a moist wound bed. Primary dressings with
high absorptive capabilities, including foams, alginates,
and other specialty dressings, are often selected for the primary coverage layer for heavily exudative VLUs.246
Guideline 4.15: Topical Dressings Containing
Antimicrobials
We recommend against the routine use of topical
antimicrobial-containing dressings in the treatment of
noninfected venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - A]
In the only prospective RCT of topical antibiotics, which
examined the treatment of noninfected VLUs, Michaels et al
randomized 213 patients with VLUs to silver-releasing dressings compared with non-silver-releasing dressings.247 No signiﬁcant difference in ulcer healing or other quality of life
measures was identiﬁed in the silver dressing group. Given
the increased cost of silver-containing dressings, routine use
of topical antimicrobial dressings for the treatment of VLUs
is not supported.248,249
Guideline 4.16: Periulcer Skin Management
We suggest application of skin lubricants underneath compression to reduce dermatitis that commonly
affects periulcer skin. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] In severe cases of dermatitis associated
with venous leg ulcers, we suggest topical steroids to
reduce the development of secondary ulcerations and
to reduce the symptoms of dermatitis. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Management of dermatitis and other abnormalities of
the periulcer skin is an important adjunct to other therapies
in the treatment of VLUs.250 Venous hypertension may
cause signiﬁcant dermatitis in the calf and ankle that may
be ameliorated with a variety of skin lubricants and other

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

agents. Contact dermatitis related to the dressings and
other products used to treat VLUs is also frequent. Recognizing this problem and treating it expeditiously will prevent secondary skin ulceration complicating the primary
leg ulcer.251,252 Consultation from dermatology may be
useful in long-standing or recurrent cases experiencing
sensitivity to wound treatment products.
Guideline 4.17: Anti-inﬂammatory Therapies
We suggest against use of anti-inﬂammatory therapies for the treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Although a signiﬁcant body of research has identiﬁed
that VLUs are associated with signiﬁcant upregulation of
inﬂammatory cytokines and proteases,71,83,253 there is a
lack of data identifying that any anti-inﬂammatory dressing
other than compression is associated with accelerated healing of VLUs.254
Adjunctive Wound Therapies
Guideline 4.18: Indications for Adjuvant Therapies
We recommend adjuvant wound therapy options for
venous leg ulcers that fail to demonstrate improvement
after a minimum of 4 to 6 weeks of standard wound
therapy. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Adjunctive therapies for the healing of VLUs should be
considered after all standard of care measures have been
implemented. Comprehensive care should include compression therapy, local wound débridement, control of bioburden, wound moisture balance with appropriate
dressings, and consideration of the use of pentoxifylline. After a minimum of 4 to 6 weeks of appropriate care, a
decrease in wound dimensions should be noted. Standard
of care for VLUs will lead to improvement in the majority
of cases, and only in those cases without improvement
should adjunctive modalities be used. The cost of these therapies can be high, and the evidence supporting their use is
not sufﬁciently strong to justify their use as primary therapy
without an attempt at lower cost, evidence-based methods.
However, failure to demonstrate improvement after 4 weeks
of treatment with a decrease in wound size of at least 30% to
40% should lead the clinician to consider adjunctive treatment options.109 Re-evaluation of the patient and wound
should be performed before the use of adjuvant therapies
to ensure that compression has achieved edema control, bioburden is well controlled, and exudate is not excessive.
Guideline 4.19: Split-thickness Skin Grafting
We suggest against split-thickness skin grafting as
primary therapy in treatment of venous leg ulcers.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest
split-thickness skin grafting with continued compression for selected large venous leg ulcers that have failed
to show signs of healing with standard care for 4 to 6
weeks. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]

O’Donnell et al 29S

There is currently insufﬁcient information to recommend use of autologous skin grafting as a primary therapy
for VLUs. Studies have bias, small sample size, and indirect
comparators. A Cochrane review on skin grafting for VLUs
also failed to reach a deﬁnitive recommendation.255 A
recent RCT found that use of low-molecular-weight heparin resulted in decreased recurrence compared with skin
grafting without anticoagulation.256,257 After skin grafting,
patients should continue to use therapeutic compression.
Individual situations and patient preferences might
result in the use of skin grafting for VLUs. Some clinicians
consider skin grafting after standard of care has failed, for
large soft tissue defects, by the patient’s or clinician’s preference, and when there are speciﬁc reasons that require
more expeditious closure. In a nonrandomized study of
111 patients, Jankunas demonstrated improved healing
and durability with skin grafting compared with conservative therapy for large venous wounds that were present
longer than 6 months,, but only 65% of cases were judged
to have good take of the split-thickness skin graft.258 Skin
grafting should be considered as primary therapy only for
large wounds (ie, >25 cm2) in which healing is unlikely
without grafting or as secondary therapy after there is a failure to achieve healing with standard of care.
Guideline 4.20: Cellular Therapy
We suggest the use of cultured allogeneic bilayer
skin replacements (with both epidermal and dermal
layers) to increase the chances for healing in patients
with difﬁcult to heal venous leg ulcers in addition to
compression therapy in patients who have failed to
show signs of healing after standard therapy for 4 to
6 weeks. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - A]
Apligraf, an allogeneic bilayer cellular therapy, has been
approved by the FDA for treatment of VLUs. The efﬁcacy
of Apligraf was studied in an RCT of 245 patients with
VLUs treated with standard of care compared with standard
of care plus the application of Apligraf.259,260 VLUs had been
present for at least 6 weeks and had not responded well to the
initial use of compression and the other aspects of standard
care. Subsequent research has identiﬁed improved outcomes
for recalcitrant VLUs (>1 year duration or large surface
area).262 No other living cellular therapies have demonstrated
beneﬁt for the treatment of VLUs in prospective RCTs.
Guideline 4.21: Preparation for Cellular Therapy
We suggest a therapeutic trial of appropriate
compression and wound bed moisture control before
application of cellular therapy. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - C] We recommend that adequate
wound bed preparation, including complete removal of
slough, debris, and any necrotic tissue, be completed
before the application of a bilayered cellular graft.
[GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] We recommend additional evaluation and management of increased
bioburden levels before the application of cellular therapy. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

30S O’Donnell et al

Guideline 4.22: Frequency of Cellular Therapy
Application
We suggest reapplication of cellular therapy as long
as the venous leg ulcer continues to respond on the basis of wound documentation. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
The optimal frequency and timing of reapplication of
biologic skin substitutes to VLUs remain controversial
with little consensus in published studies. The initial pivotal
trial for Apligraf allowed up to ﬁve applications of the product during the ﬁrst 3 weeks of the study.259 Reapplication
was performed if the investigator thought that there was
less than 50% “take” of the skin equivalent on inspection
of the wound. Subsequent to this clinical trial, it has
been determined that living skin equivalents do not persist
in the wound for more than a few weeks, so “no take” occurs as is seen with autologous grafts. Other studies have
reported application at variable times, including weekly,
every few weeks, or once only.261 With no comparative
dosing studies published to determine clinical or economic
outcomes, the frequency of application remains at the
discretion of the clinician. Current clinical practice has
included application of grafts followed by a period of 1
to 3 weeks of observation to determine effectiveness before
reapplication is considered.
Guideline 4.23: Tissue Matrices, Human Tissues,
or Other Skin Substitutes
We suggest the use of a porcine small intestinal submucosa tissue construct in addition to compression
therapy for the treatment of venous leg ulcers that
have failed to show signs of healing after standard therapy for 4 to 6 weeks. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Numerous tissue constructs are available for use in
chronic wounds that employ either human tissue (amniotic
membrane, cryopreserved skin) or animal tissue (bladder,
fetal bovine skin, others). Some are reported to contain
active growth factors or other attributes that might be
beneﬁcial to healing of VLUs.262 Of the multitude of
such products currently marketed, only porcine small intestinal submucosa has prospective RCT data supporting its
use to accelerate VLU closure.263
Guideline 4.24: Negative Pressure Therapy
We suggest against routine primary use of negative
pressure wound therapy for venous leg ulcers.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
There is currently not enough information to support
the primary use of negative pressure wound therapy for
VLUs. Evidence supports positive effects with the use of
negative pressure therapy for wound healing in general.
Tissue granulation, area and volume reduction, and reductions in bioburden have all been reported. There have been

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

few studies speciﬁcally studying negative pressure therapy
for VLUs, with most studies reporting on mixed wound
causes.264 There has been an increase in the use of negative
pressure wound therapy for wound bed preparation to
augment skin graft healing.265
Guideline 4.25: Electrical Stimulation
We suggest against electrical stimulation therapy
for venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
There is theoretical, preclinical, and limited clinical evidence to support the use of electrical stimulation for the
treatment of VLUs.266 However, few studies of electrical
stimulation focus solely on VLUs. Also, there is little consistency in the parameters of treatment, including variability in type of electrical current, settings, treatment
times, and preferred waveforms, making comparisons
impossible.267,268 For these reasons, electrical stimulation
is not recommended for the treatment of VLUs until
further evidence supports its use.
Guideline 4.26: Ultrasound Therapy
We suggest against routine ultrasound therapy for
venous leg ulceration. [GRADE -2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Therapeutic ultrasound has been found to stimulate a
number of cellular effects associated with the acceleration
of wound healing. These cellular effects have been well
studied in vitro and include improvement of microcirculation, reduction of edema, and increases in cytokine and
other protein levels that are active in the healing
cascade.269 Clinical trials studying the effects of ultrasound
have reported positive results in the healing of a variety of
chronic nonhealing wounds.270 Clinical trials of therapeutic ultrasound for the healing of VLUs lack standardized
protocols, and relatively few studies focus on VLUs alone.
In a pilot study of VLUs refractory to compression therapy,
ultrasound treatment was associated with a decrease in
wound size, inﬂammatory cytokines, bacterial counts, and
pain.271 In an RCT of 337 VLU patients, weekly treatment
with high-frequency ultrasound did not result in an increase in healing rates or improved quality of life compared
with standard VLU care.272 Unfortunately, most therapeutic ultrasound protocols have recommended treatment sessions at higher frequency, such is three times weekly or
once daily. This has led to criticism of this trial as suffering
from inadequate ultrasound dosing to determine whether
it provides any beneﬁt to patients with VLUs. Additional
studies employing a standardized protocol of therapeutic
ultrasound in patients with VLUs are required for further
recommendations on the use of this modality to be
made.273 On the basis of current literature, there is insufﬁcient evidence to recommend the routine use of therapeutic ultrasound for the treatment of VLUs as a primary
therapy.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 31S

On the basis of the literature review, there are three
adjuvant treatments with evidence suggestive of beneﬁt
for patients with VLUs that do not respond to an initial
treatment course of standard therapy. Split-thickness skin
grafting may provide beneﬁt, particularly for large, recalcitrant VLUs. Cellular therapy with Apligraf was found to be
beneﬁcial in a multicenter randomized clinical trial, as was
porcine small intestinal submucosa. There have been no
comparative trials of these therapies published with sufﬁcient evidence to recommend one therapy over the others
for the treatment of recalcitrant VLUs.

because of limitations in current evidence. Use of confusing
terminology and not reporting the dose (pressure) of a
compression device and physical properties of the compression product are just a few of many deﬁciencies in available
evidence related to compression therapy.275 The use of
pressure-measuring devices at the skin-bandage interface
to ensure adequate pressure applied during the bandaging
is not routine; however, in speciﬁc circumstances (such as
study protocol and quality assurance), such instruments
can be applied.276,277

COMPRESSION

Guideline 5.1: CompressiondUlcer Healing
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer, we recommend
compression therapy over no compression therapy to
increase venous leg ulcer healing rate. [GRADE - 1;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - A]

Compression therapy is based on a mechanical concept
of applying pressure to the limb. This simple action causes
multiple biologic processes proved to be beneﬁcial for management of conditions ranging from occupational swelling
to venous ulcers. A variety of devices have been used for
compression therapy. Different types of bandages, bandage
systems, and ready-to-use garments can provide sustained
compression, whereas several pneumatic devices apply
intermittent compression.
For the treatment of VLU, compression systems, which
exert hemodynamic improvement on the dysfunctional
venous pumping function, are preferred. Such systems
that do not give way to the expanding muscle during
walking are either short-stretch textiles or multicomponent
bandages containing elastic material in combination with
an adhesive or cohesive covering layer. Such bandages
need to be applied by trained staff. Self-applicable and
adjustable short-stretch Velcro band devices may be an
alternative. Elastic bandages or compression stockings are
effective concerning edema reduction but are hemodynamically less effective in improving the venous pumping
function.274
Bandage layers should be differentiated from components. The term multilayer describes one bandage that always covers the leg with more than one layer because of
overlapping during application. Every multicomponent
bandage is a multilayer bandage, whereas graduated
compression stockings have a single compression layer.
The four-layer bandage (4LB) is a multicomponent
bandage consisting of four components: orthopedic wool,
crepe bandage, elastic bandage, and elastic cohesive (outer)
bandage. Applying several components and layers over
each other not only increases the pressure but also changes
the elastic property of the ﬁnal bandage because of the friction between the surfaces of each bandage and a cohesive
outer layer, producing a ﬁnal multilayer bandage that is
less elastic and more stiff. Short-stretch bandages (SSB)
are also often used as multicomponent bandages in combination with different materials. Unfortunately, the different
combinations of materials are often poorly described in
trials.
Coexistence of multiple devices that are designed to
perform essentially the same function demonstrates that
although compression therapy is generally effective, the
optimization of compression has been a challenging task

A total of nine RCTs compare compression therapy to
no compression therapy, and these trials provide objective
information on initial ulcer size as well as the outcomes
of time to complete healing or proportion of ulcers healed
(FDA-recommended end points of wound therapy trials).
The preponderance of evidence suggests that VLUs heal
more quickly with compression therapy vs no compression
as conﬁrmed by our commissioned comparative systematic
review and meta-analysis of compression modalities and
venous ulcer healing.30
One RCT of 36 patients directly compared compressive (Unna boot) with noncompressive bandages (polyurethane foam dressing). Wound healing rates were
signiﬁcantly improved by 0.07 cm2/day (P ¼ .004), and
more patients completely healed in the compression group
(RR, 2.30; 95% CI, 1.29-4.10).278,279
A recent Cochrane review identiﬁed three RCTs
encompassing a total of 177 patients comparing compression dressings with primary dressing alone (never with
compression).279 One study (44 patients) showed a difference with improved ulcer area and volume at 8 weeks.280
Two of the studies (49 and 84 patients) failed to show a
difference in healing rates between treatments at 7 weeks
and 6 months of follow-up, respectively.281,282
Another RCT of 321 patients compared SSB or 4LB
with moist wound dressings without compression. The
healing rate at 24 weeks was superior in both compression
groups (72% SSB and 67% 4LB) compared with the noncompression group (29%; P < .0001).283
Three of four additional RCTs that compared
compression dressings with standard wound care found
improvement in ulcer healing with compression therapy.
One study (53 patients) compared SSB with usual care
and found complete ulcer healing at 3 months to be 71%
in the SSB group compared with 25% in the usual care
group (P value not reported).284 The remaining studies
compared 4LB dressing with primary care management.
A trial of 36 patients found more complete healing at 3
months in the compression group compared with the usual
care group (RR, 4.0; 95% CI, 1.35-11.82).285 Similar

32S O’Donnell et al

results were found in a larger trial encompassing 200 participants, with 54% of patients healed in the 4LB group
compared with 34% in the control group (P < .001).286
Another RCT of 233 patients failed to ﬁnd a difference between two groups with regard to complete healing at 1
year but did ﬁnd improved rate of healing (median time
of 20 vs 43 weeks; P ¼ .03) favoring the compression
group.287

Guideline 5.2: CompressiondUlcer Recurrence
In a patient with a healed venous leg ulcer, we suggest compression therapy to decrease the risk of ulcer
recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
The potential for recurrence of VLUs is high as
demonstrated by a 67% recurrence rate in one study, in
which 35% of patients exhibited a remarkable four or
more episodes of ulceration.140 The reported recurrence
rate for ulcers in one study in the setting of compression
therapy alone is 28% and in combination with superﬁcial
venous surgery is 12%, highlighting the recent improvements in clinical practice.288
As more success is achieved with healing of primary
VLUs, the number of patients at risk for recurrence
rises.289 However, few RCTs have speciﬁcally evaluated
the impact of compression therapy on the risk of ulcer
recurrence. One trial randomized 153 patients with
recently healed (2 weeks) VLU to compression or no
compression therapy. Compression hosiery with a high
pressure (34-46 mm Hg) was associated with signiﬁcant
reduction in ulcer recurrence at 6 months compared with
no compression (21% vs 46%; RR, 0.46; 95% CI, 0.270.76; P ¼ .003).289,290 A second RCT of 188 patients randomized 166 into two treatment groups, each receiving
therapy with 23 mm Hg compression at the ankle with
two brands of stockings. Compliance data reported from
this trial as summarized in Nelson and Bell-Syer demonstrated that inability to tolerate compression therapy was
signiﬁcantly associated with recurrent ulceration (RR,
2.58; 95% CI, 1.33-5.01; P ¼ .010), although these patients were not included in randomization.289,291
These RCT data are congruent with 15 years of observational data demonstrating that lack of compliance with
compression therapy was signiﬁcantly associated with ulcer
recurrence (16% recurrence with compliance, 100%
without; P < .0001).292 Two studies to date have evaluated the use of moderate (UK class II, 18-24 mm Hg at
the ankle) to high (UK class III, 25-35 mm Hg) compression and compliance with these stockings on prevention of
ulcer recurrence, with differing results. One study found no
difference in recurrence between the two groups but significantly lower compliance in the high-compression
group.293 Because time to recurrence was not reported,
the effect of compression pressures on delay of recurrence
remains unknown.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

On the basis of our commissioned comparative systematic review and meta-analysis of compression modalities
and venous ulcer healing, low-quality evidence supports
the effect of compression on ulcer recurrence.30
Guideline 5.3: Multicomponent Compression
Bandage
We suggest the use of multicomponent compression bandage over single-component bandages for the
treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - B]
The possible difference in healing outcomes between
single-layer and multilayer compression bandages has
been evaluated in four trials, three of which have been published. In two trials, the number of participants was small
(n ¼ 27 and 34) and showed no difference between treatment groups.279,294,295 However, a large RCT with 245
patients demonstrated improved healing at 24 weeks
(67% vs 49%; P ¼ .009) in the multilayer (4LB) bandage
group compared with the single-layer group.296 In addition, 4LB were associated with faster wound closure (78
vs 168 days; P ¼ .001) compared with the single-layer
group.
A recent meta-analysis identiﬁed six trials directly
comparing multicomponent bandages containing elastic
with those not containing elastic. Data from 797 patients
(ﬁve trials with independent patient data available) demonstrated 30% improved healing with 4LB compared with
those with SSB (odds ratio, 1.31; 95% CI, 1.09-1.58;
P ¼ .0005).297 These data might in part be explained by
the skill of the health care professional in achieving optimal
sub-bandage pressures and graduated compression. In
comparing 4LB with SSB in countries where the medical
staff is familiar with applying SSB (eg, Netherlands and
Austria), there was no signiﬁcant difference between the ulcer healing rates after 3 months (33 of 53 ¼ 62% healed
with 4LB vs 43 of 59 ¼ 73% with SSB).297-299 Studies
comparing different versions of the 4LB (proprietary and
nonproprietary) were similar in outcomes, and thus a speciﬁc 4LB is not endorsed.300-302
On the basis of our commissioned comparative systematic review and meta-analysis of compression modalities
and venous ulcer healing, moderate-quality evidence supports multicomponent compression over single component
compression.30
Guideline 5.4: CompressiondArterial Insufﬁciency
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer and underlying
arterial disease, we do not suggest compression bandages or stockings if the ankle-brachial index is 0.5 or
less or if absolute ankle pressure is less than 60 mm
Hg. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
An ABI of less than 0.5 is considered to be indicative
of severe arterial disease.303 Compression of a limb with

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

signiﬁcant arterial disease could compromise arterial
perfusion and potentially result in adverse ischemic
sequelae. In a survey study, nearly one third of general
surgery consultants surveyed reported that they had
encountered ulcers or necrosis as the direct result of
compression treatment.304 Supporting evidence is limited
to a small number of case reports and a dated physiology
study that examined the effects of compression on the upper extremity in healthy subjects.305-307 However, one
study using magnetic resonance ﬂowmetry showed that
sustained compression with a pressure around 40 mm
Hg increases the arterial ﬂow under the bandage in
normal volunteers.308 Similarly, a recent study performed
in patients with VLUs and concomitant arterial occlusive
disease (ABI of 0.5 to 0.85) demonstrated by multiple
metrics that arterial blood ﬂow is even augmented by inelastic bandages.309
For patients with VLU and concomitant PAD, use of
standard compression has been shown to be safe if ABI
$0.80.303,310,311 Modiﬁed compression bandages or
compression stockings with lower pressure ratings can be
used for ankle systolic pressure $60 mm Hg, digital pressure $30 mm Hg or ABI $0.50 with close monitoring,
but only after consultation with a vascular specialist.309,312
Use of ankle perfusion pressure of 60 mm Hg or greater
rather than ABI #0.5 as a cutoff for compression is
preferred because this correlates better with tissue perfusion pressure, and any sustained external compression pressure should never exceed this cutoff perfusion pressure.
One study showed that modiﬁed compression multilayered
bandages with reduced compression pressure can be beneﬁcial for healing of mixed ulcers.311

Guideline 5.5: Intermittent Pneumatic Compression
We suggest use of intermittent pneumatic compression when other compression options are not available,
cannot be used, or have failed to aid in venous leg
ulcer healing after prolonged compression therapy.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) was
initially proposed as a method to promote VLU healing
by activation of the ﬁbrinolytic system and showed promise in decreasing VLU healing time in patients who had
previously failed to respond to conservative treatment.313,314 However, this theory remains to be rigorously tested. To date, only 387 patients have been
enrolled in RCTs comparing IPC with other treatment
modalities.36 Whereas it is advantageous to use IPC
compared with no compression therapy, currently there
is limited evidence to suggest that the addition of IPC
to compression therapy offers beneﬁt.315 Thus, the patients likely to beneﬁt most from IPC are those who
cannot tolerate or do not have access to compression

O’Donnell et al 33S

therapy or who have failed to respond to prolonged
compression therapy alone. Further studies need to be undertaken to evaluate the beneﬁt of IPC in this particular
cohort. In circumstances in which IPC is used, there is
some evidence to suggest that proportion of ulcers healed
(86% vs 61% at 6 months; P ¼ .003) is improved with
rapid compared with slow cycling.316
OPERATIVE/ENDOVASCULAR MANAGEMENT
Guidelines for operative and endovascular management are categorized anatomically as superﬁcial venous disease, perforator venous disease, deep infrainguinal venous
disease, and iliocaval disease. Each category can be
managed with open surgical or endovascular techniques.
The rare occurrence of congenital venous disease leading
to VLU and its treatment lacks deﬁnitive reporting.
These guidelines for operative and endovascular management also address the twofold goal of VLU treatment,
which includes ulcer healing and prevention of ulcer recurrence. The separate pathologic processes of primary degenerative reﬂux disease and inﬂammatory thrombotic disease
provide different challenges for the treating physician
because the surgeon or interventionalist must provide a
speciﬁc procedure to correct the pathologic state.
In general, quality of the evidence available to support
recommendations for operative and endovascular management is mostly limited to level C evidence because of an
absence of comparative prospective RCTs of treatment
techniques, with the exception of superﬁcial venous treatments. The strength of the clinical recommendations for
operative and endovascular management can be increased
by concurrence of results from individual case series
and expert opinion of the Venous Ulcer Guidelines
Committee.
This section is predicated on the principle that deep
vein reconstruction is reserved for cases in which there
has been failure to control the ulcer diathesis by dedicated nonsurgical measures and by simpler conventional
interventions in the superﬁcial and perforator veins of
the extremity. In general, less invasive procedures are
preferred when they are available and equally effective.
Concurrence has been negatively affected because of
the evolving developmental status of open surgery for
complicated pathologic states in the deep veins of the
leg, pelvis, and abdomen and the ongoing search for
minimally invasive procedures. Within these limitations,
there is growing consensus that the endovascular stenting techniques are the most appropriate surgical treatment for iliac occlusive disease, whereas open
autogenous repair is best therapy for deep vein reﬂux in
the infrainguinal lower extremity or from failed endovenous stent procedures of the iliocaval and iliofemoral
venous system. A practical algorithm for operative and
endovascular management of patients with VLUs is proposed in the Fig.

34S O’Donnell et al

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Fig. Proposed algorithm for operative and endovascular treatment of patients with venous leg ulcer (VLU) based on
involved anatomic venous system and presence of venous reﬂux or obstruction. The risk-to-beneﬁt ratio is weighed for
those procedures with more risk (lower, moderate, higher) considered later in the treatment when the beneﬁt is similar.

Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Venous Leg Ulcer
Guideline 6.1 Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Active
Venous Leg UlcerdUlcer Healing
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer (C6) and
incompetent superﬁcial veins that have axial reﬂux
directed to the bed of the ulcer, we suggest ablation
of the incompetent veins in addition to standard
compressive therapy to improve ulcer healing.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.2 Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and Active
Venous Leg UlcerdPrevent Recurrence
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer (C6) and
incompetent superﬁcial veins that have axial reﬂux
directed to the bed of the ulcer, we recommend ablation of the incompetent veins in addition to standard
compressive therapy to prevent recurrence. [GRADE 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Our commissioned comparative systematic review and
meta-analysis of surgical interventions vs conservative
therapy including 11 studies (seven RCTs and four observational studies) favored open surgery vs compression for
ulcer healing, although the quality of the evidence was
low.31 In addition, other individual RCTs have shown a

difference that was not statistically signiﬁcant favoring surgical treatment of the superﬁcial venous system and
compression over compression alone.31,288,317 On the basis of these observations, the strength and grade of evidence favoring surgery for ulcer healing are limited to a
Grade 2C classiﬁcation. Regarding recurrence, our
commissioned comparative systematic review and metaanalysis included two RCTs, and each study favored
surgery plus compression over compression alone to a
statistically signiﬁcant degree for prevention of ulcer
recurrence.288,317,318 Because each study had some challenges in design and baseline imbalance, the strength
and grade of evidence is 1B.
Regarding the choice of method of saphenous ablation, there are multiple RCTs showing strong and consistent evidence that modern open surgery, radiofrequency,
and laser ablation are equivalent in effect and safety
(Table IX).319-330 Endovenous ablation can be extrapolated to be as effective as open ligation and stripping
used in these earlier trials. Moreover, endovenous ablation
can be carried out under local/tumescent anesthesia as an
ofﬁce-based procedure, which shifts the risk/beneﬁt ratio
signiﬁcantly. Foam sclerotherapy has been demonstrated
to rival these modalities and has signiﬁcantly more recanalizations and reﬂuxing treated segments on follow-up

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 35S

Table IX. Randomized controlled trials of endovenous laser or radiofrequency ablation vs open surgery for the treatment
of great saphenous vein incompetence (at least 1 year of follow-up) comparing recurrence of varicose veins and
neovascularization
Results
Year

No. of patients

Endovenous laser ablation vs open surgery
2007
80
Lin et al319
2009
120
Theivacumar et al320
2010
200
Christenson et al321
2010
130
Pronk et al322
323
2011
280
Carradice et al
2012
346
Rass et al324
2013
137
Rasmussen et al325
Endovenous radiofrequency ablation vs open surgery
326
2005
65
Lurie et al
2005
28
Perala et al327
2006
55
Kianifard et al328
329
2006
60
Stötter et al
330
2010
180
Helmy ElKaffas et al

Follow-up, years

Recurrence

Neovascularization

1
2
2
1
1
2
5

No difference
No difference
No difference
No difference
þ Laser
No difference
No difference

No difference
þ Laser
No difference
No difference
No difference
No difference
No difference

2
3
1
1
2

No difference
No difference
No difference
No difference
No difference

No difference
No difference
þ Radiofrequency
No difference
No difference

þ Laser, Favored in comparison of laser vs open surgery; þ Radiofrequency, favored in comparison of radiofrequency vs open surgery.

evaluation.331,332 Several ablation techniques remain under investigation, including steam ablation and pharmacomechanical and cyanoacrylate ablation as well as CHIVA
(ambulatory conservative hemodynamic management of
varicose veins; one small RCT showed that CHIVA had
a higher proportion of ulcers heal than with compression
alone) and ASVAL (ambulatory selective varicose vein
ablation under local anesthesia).20,257,333-338

Guideline 6.3: Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux and
Healed Venous Leg Ulcer
In a patient with a healed venous leg ulcer (C5) and
incompetent superﬁcial veins that have axial reﬂux
directed to the bed of the ulcer, we recommend ablation of the incompetent veins in addition to standard
compressive therapy to prevent recurrence. [GRADE 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Guideline 6.4: Superﬁcial Venous Reﬂux With Skin
Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b)
In a patient with skin changes at risk for venous leg
ulcer (C4b) and incompetent superﬁcial veins that have
axial reﬂux directed to the bed of the affected skin, we
suggest ablation of the incompetent superﬁcial veins in
addition to standard compressive therapy to prevent ulceration. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
The evidence supporting this guideline is an extrapolation of the data on ulcer healing and prevention of ulcer
recurrence stated under Guidelines 6.1 and 6.2. In this
group of patients, VLUs had healed, and so intervention
is expected to provide protection from recurrence as noted
in our commissioned comparative systematic review and
meta-analysis and the two RCTs.31,288,317,318

Perforator Venous Reﬂux and Venous Leg Ulcer
Guideline 6.5: Combined Superﬁcial and Perforator Venous Reﬂux With or Without Deep Venous
Reﬂux and Active Venous Leg Ulcer
In a patient with a venous leg ulcer (C6) and
incompetent superﬁcial veins that have reﬂux to the ulcer bed in addition to pathologic perforating veins
(outward ﬂow of >500 ms duration, with a diameter
of >3.5 mm) located beneath or associated with the ulcer bed, we suggest ablation of both the incompetent
superﬁcial veins and perforator veins in addition to
standard compressive therapy to aid in ulcer healing
and to prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - C]
The evidence regarding treatment of perforator venous
reﬂux associated with a VLU is complicated by several factors but most notably by combining its treatment with that
of superﬁcial venous reﬂux.339-352 The Dutch RCT
comparing subfascial endoscopic perforator vein surgery
(SEPS) with or without superﬁcial reﬂux ablation to medical treatment in patients with venous ulcers found no difference in healing rate or recurrence in the two treatment
groups.317 However, patients with recurrent ulceration or
medially located ulcers in the surgical group had a longer
ulcer-free period than did those treated in the conservative
group (P ¼ .02). A secondary analysis of the Dutch SEPS
trial on 94 ulcerated legs was reported with a mean followup of 29 months.353 Ulcer recurrence was signiﬁcantly
higher in patients who had an incomplete SEPS procedure
(P ¼ .007), indicating the clinical signiﬁcance of incompetent perforating veins in patients with venous ulcers.

36S O’Donnell et al

A meta-analysis that included this RCT and 19 case series
involving 1140 treated limbs found that surgical treatment
by SEPS, with or without superﬁcial venous ablation, resulted
in ulcer healing in 88% and a low ulcer recurrence of 13% at
21 months.340 Another meta-analysis concluded that perforator interruption used as a part of a treatment regimen for
severe CVI beneﬁts most patients in the short term regarding
ulcer healing and the prevention of ulcer.345
Guideline 6.6: Combined Superﬁcial and Perforator Venous Reﬂux With or Without Deep Venous
Disease and Skin Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer
(C4b) or Healed Venous Ulcer (C5)
In a patient with skin changes at risk for venous leg
ulcer (C4b) or healed venous ulcer (C5) and incompetent superﬁcial veins that have reﬂux to the ulcer bed in
addition to pathologic perforating veins (outward ﬂow
of >500 ms duration, with a diameter of >3.5 mm)
located beneath or associated with the healed ulcer
bed, we suggest ablation of the incompetent superﬁcial
veins to prevent the development or recurrence of a
venous leg ulcer. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C] Treatment of the incompetent perforating veins can be performed simultaneously with
correction of axial reﬂux or can be staged with reevaluation of perforator veins for persistent incompetence after correction of axial reﬂux. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
A recent systematic review that included analysis of 12
practice guidelines and four RCTs concluded that perforating
vein interruption should be reserved for patients with large
pathologic perforators with advanced CVI, and evidence suggests no added beneﬁt in patients with less severe disease (C2,
C3).340 The procedure can be performed either combined
with or staged to follow superﬁcial vein ablations, and those
with long-standing and large medial ulcers or recurrent ulcerations have the chance to beneﬁt most. In the North American SEPS registry, factors associated with ulcer healing
included SEPS with concomitant ablation of superﬁcial reﬂux
and lack of deep venous obstruction (P < .05).354,355
Guideline 6.7: Pathologic Perforator Venous
Reﬂux in the Absence of Superﬁcial Venous Disease,
With or Without Deep Venous Reﬂux, and a Healed
or Active Venous Ulcer
In a patient with isolated pathologic perforator veins
(outward ﬂow of >500 ms duration, with a diameter of
>3.5 mm) located beneath or associated with the healed
(C5) or active ulcer (C6) bed regardless of the status of
the deep veins, we suggest ablation of the “pathologic”
perforating veins in addition to standard compression
therapy to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
There is no RCT that evaluated the effect of isolated
perforator interruption on ulcer healing or recurrence.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

Results of the SEPS registry, however, found that ulcer
recurrence in 57 patients who underwent SEPS without
saphenous ablation was not signiﬁcantly higher than recurrence after combined venous surgery.354 Endovenous interventions, as discussed in Guideline 6.8, will undoubtedly
bring new evidence to corroborate the efﬁcacy of perforator
ablations in the treatment of venous ulcers.
Guideline 6.8: Treatment Alternatives for Pathologic Perforator Veins
For those patients who would beneﬁt from pathologic perforator vein ablation, we recommend treatment by percutaneous techniques that include
ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy or endovenous thermal ablation (radiofrequency or laser) over open
venous perforator surgery to eliminate the need for incisions in areas of compromised skin. [GRADE - 1;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Endovenous techniques, including radiofrequency
and laser ablations as well as foam sclerotherapy of perforating veins, have gained increasing acceptance because
of the minimally invasive nature of these interventions.23,342-344,346-348,350 Therapy can be repeated with
ease, risk of complications is minimal, and early to
midterm results in case series are equivalent to or better
than those reported after conventional perforating vein
interruptions.356-358 The risks of open procedures, which
speciﬁcally include infection, difﬁculty in healing of incisions required for treatment, increased local trauma, and
need for general anesthesia, set open operations apart
from these less invasive percutaneous methods. In one
of the larger series of 140 consecutive endovenous ablation procedures (74 superﬁcial and 66 perforator) on
110 venous ulcers in 88 limbs, there was measurable
and signiﬁcant reduction in ulcer size and ultimate healing after ablation of incompetent superﬁcial and perforator veins in patients for whom conventional
compression therapy had failed.337,348
Deep Venous Obstruction/Reﬂux and Venous Leg
Ulcer. For the following recommendations involving deep
venous obstruction or reﬂux, patients with VLUs being
evaluated for deep venous intervention should have already
been evaluated and treated for any superﬁcial or perforator
reﬂux per Guidelines 6.1 to 6.8. For the remaining
Guidelines 6.9 to 6.17, the status of the deep venous system is the only pathologic process requiring treatment. The
risks of open procedures, which speciﬁcally include infection,
difﬁculty in healing of incisions required for treatment,
increased local trauma, hematoma formation, and need for
general anesthesia, set open operations apart from the less
invasive percutaneous methods. As a result, in patients
with clinically signiﬁcant iliac and caval obstruction combined with infrainguinal reﬂux or obstruction, percutaneous
balloon angioplasty with stenting is suggested as the initial
procedure over deep venous valvular reconstructions or
open operative bypass procedures because it is much less
invasive and presents less risk to the patient.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

Guideline 6.9: Infrainguinal Deep Venous
Obstruction and Skin Changes at Risk for Venous
Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed (C5) or Active (C6) Venous
Leg Ulcer
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous obstruction and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b),
healed venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer
(C6), we suggest autogenous venous bypass or endophlebectomy in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Evidence is limited to case series and is further complicated by the variable combinations of reﬂux and obstruction
that may be encountered from the calf to the inferior vena
cava. There will frequently be a mixture of primary valve
reﬂux and post-thrombotic secondary venous occlusion at
different levels of the venous tree, and decisions as to the
most critical site of disease have to be made from detailed
preoperative anatomic analysis of the extremity veins. The
principles that guide the choice of an individual procedure
include the need for adequate inﬂow pressure and volume
into and out of the repaired segments and preferential use
of autogenous tissue for each element of the repair. Often,
there is need to combine various techniques, such as endophlebectomy with bypass or with valve repair or venous
transplantation. All of the techniques described in this and
the following Guideline sections are potential choices that
might be used in combination with endophlebectomy to
provide the inﬂow and outﬂow needed for success. Evidence
shows a preponderance of successful results for all techniques in 40% to 60% of cases with follow-up of 2 to 4
years.359-371 Variations occur according to the status of
the inﬂow vessels in the extremity and the outﬂow vessels
from the common femoral vein.
On the basis of evidence for patients with lower extremity infrainguinal deep venous obstruction, autogenous
venous bypass or endophlebectomy is suggested, depending on the status of inﬂow and outﬂow vessels.367-371 Challenges exist with identiﬁcation of physiologic degrees of
obstruction and the quality of the obstructed vein that
will determine the need for autogenous vein bypass
conduit. Future expansion of endovascular techniques in
combination with endophlebectomy can be predicted in
this area.372,373
Guideline 6.10: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin
Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed
(C5) or Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdLigation
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux
and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b),
healed venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer
(C6), we suggest against deep vein ligation of the
femoral or popliteal veins as a routine treatment.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Ligation of the femoral and popliteal veins without welldemonstrated collateral pathways risks an increase of outﬂow

O’Donnell et al 37S

obstruction and is not recommended unless effective collaterals can be identiﬁed. Several case reports support ligation
of the femoral vein as a method of eliminating physiologically signiﬁcant reﬂux of the femoral vein when the collateral
pathways of both great saphenous and deep femoral veins
are patent and competent.374-377
Guideline 6.11: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin
Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed
(C5) or Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdPrimary Valve
Repair
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux
and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b),
healed venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer
(C6), we suggest individual valve repair for those who
have axial reﬂux with structurally preserved deep
venous valves in addition to standard compression
therapy to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Several techniques are used to fashion an incompetent
valve into a competent valve. External banding refers to a
synthetic sleeve placed around the circumference of a valve
to reduce the vein circumference and to produce a competent valve. External valvuloplasty is the technique of placing
sutures along the valve attachment line of the intact vein to
decrease the vein diameter with or without actually engaging
the valve leaﬂets. The commissural angle is decreased with or
without actual leaﬂet tightening to allow the valve cusps to
properly appose and to prevent valve prolapse. Internal valvuloplasty requires open venotomy to allow direct visualization of the valve leaﬂets so that sutures can be accurately
placed to reef or pull the cusps into alignment and to reduce
redundancy until a competent valve has been restored.
External banding can achieve acceptable results in wellselected patients with early vein dilation. Long-term ulcer
healing has been reported in about 50% of patients with
one valve repair, and improved long-term results have
been reported with multiple reconstructions.378-381
External valvuloplasty results vary by technique, with
the advocates of the “commissural repair” reporting a competency rate of w60% and freedom from ulcer recurrence
rate of w70% at 3 years.382 Others have reported lower
competency (down to 32%) and ulcer-free rates (down to
50%) at 2 years. Proper patient selection is a critical variable
in the results obtained. Overall, this technique appears
applicable and effective in select patients, with expectations
of a 50% ulcer-free rate at 2 years.377-380,383-390
Internal valvuloplasty is an anatomically precise technique that has been modiﬁed over time. Although internal
valvuloplasty provides the longest durability, it is technically
more demanding and highly operator dependent. This technique is subject to higher complication rates than external repairs. Serial case series have demonstrated valve competency
rates of 60% to 70% at 5 to 8 years and similar ulcer-free rates
(Table X).368,377,391-396 Representative series of internal valvuloplasty interventions in patients with advanced disease
show that most patients included in these studies had healed

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

38S O’Donnell et al

Table X. Evidence summary for internal valvuloplasty

Ferris and Kistner391
Ericksson392
Cheatle and Perrin393
Masuda et al376
Raju et al378
Sottiurai368
Perrin395
Tripathi and Ktenidis396
Tripathi et al377

Year

No. of limbs

Follow up, range (average), months

Valve Competent

Symptom resolved/healed

1982
1990
1994
1994
1996
1997
2000
2001
2004

32
19
52
32
81
143
85
25
90

12-156 (72)
44
3-54
48-252 (127)
12-144
9-168
12-96 (58)
1-12 (6)
(24)

72.7%
68.4%
85.2%
77.5%
42.3%
75%
61.5%
85.4%
79.9%

81.2%
73.7%
86.3%
71.9%
76.5%
75%
71.4%
84.0%
67.7%

or active VLUs. Essentially all studies demonstrate durable
results in patient with VLUs that have proved recalcitrant
to healing with other forms of treatment.363,391-393,397-399
Among these are comparable studies performed independently by experienced venous reconstructive surgeons who
report a consistent range of successful results with longterm follow-up at 1, 5, and 7 years.363,376,378
Guideline 6.12: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin
Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed
(C5) or Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdValve Transposition or Transplantation
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux
and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b),
healed venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer
(C6), we suggest valve transposition or transplantation
for those with absence of structurally preserved axial
deep venous valves when competent outﬂow venous
pathways are anatomically appropriate for surgical
anastomosis in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous leg ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Venous valve transposition requires that a competent
valve, or one that can be made competent, be placed above
the site where the incompetent venous systems are
implanted into the axial vein. One example would be the
presence of a competent valve in the proximal deep femoral
vein, below which the incompetent femoral vein can be
implanted to result in a then competent femoral venous
system. In the select cohort of patients who are amenable
to this intervention, a 40% to 50% competency rate with
similar freedom from ulcer recurrence has been reported
in a number of case series reports at 5 years of follow-up
(Table XI).376,391,395,399-405
Venous valve transplantation involves harvesting of a
competent segment of vein that contains a competent valve
from another extremity and implanting it into the femoral or
popliteal position to provide a functioning valve in the
affected extremity. Adjunctive use of endophlebectomy
and the need for an arteriovenous ﬁstula to increase ﬂow
through the reconstruction sites are additional considerations. The long-term competency rate at 2 to 5 years is
w50%, with a slightly higher freedom from ulcer recurrence
rate.359-368,377,405,406 Table XII includes representative

Table XI. Evidence summary for venous valve
transposition
No. Follow-up,
Valve
Ulcer
Year of limbs months competence recurrence
Johnson et al400 1981
Masuda et al376 1992
1996
Sottiurai401
Cardon et al402 1999
395
2000
Perrin
Lehtola et al403 2008

12
14
20
16
17
14

18
120
9-149
24-120
12-168
24-78

d
40%
40%
75%
53%
43%

33%
d
56%
44%
25%
d

series of venous valve transplantation conducted in patients
with C3-6 disease, with most conducted in patients with
C5,6 disease. Multiple small case series are reported with
similar results for both techniques, with restored competence in the range of 40% to 60% for more than 2 years.
Anatomic variations determine which procedure can be
used in a given case. Both procedures can be effective for
short-term ulcer healing, but both are subject to late failure
of valve competence. A late failure of competence does not
necessarily result in recurrence of ulceration.
Guideline 6.13: Deep Venous Reﬂux With Skin
Changes at Risk for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed
(C5) or Active (C6) Venous Leg UlcerdAutogenous
Valve Substitute
In a patient with infrainguinal deep venous reﬂux
and skin changes at risk for venous leg ulcer (C4b),
healed venous leg ulcer (C5), or active venous leg ulcer
(C6), we suggest consideration of autogenous valve
substitutes by surgeons experienced in these techniques
to facilitate ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence in
those with no other option available in addition to
standard compression therapy to aid in venous ulcer
healing and to prevent recurrence. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Autogenous venous valve substitutes use venous tissue to
make a functioning venous valve with pieces of vein tissue or
endoluminal scar to fashion competent valves by various techniques. These include suturing of tissue in place within the
opened vein; invagination of the stump of the great saphenous
vein into the femoral vein with appropriate sutures placed to
act as a valve; use of tacking sutures to secure the anterior

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

O’Donnell et al 39S

Table XII. Evidence summary for venous valve transplantation

Taheri et al365
Nash366
Iafrati and O’Donnell405
Perrin363
Sottiurai368
Raju et al406
Tripathi et al377

Year

No. of limbs

Follow-up, range (average), months

Valve competent

Symptom resolved/healed

1986
1988
1997
1997
1997
1999
2004a

46
25
15
30
33
83
38

8-36
12-18
(64)
12-120 (58)
8-169 (89)
12-180
(24)

91.7%
80%
92%
30%
38.7%
83%
47.5%

89.1%
92.0%
82%
60%
45.1%
60%
55.3%

a

Improved results with multiple valves repaired.

vein wall inside the vein lumen to act as valve, with a synthetic
patch used to replace the anterior wall; and dissection of the
intimal-medial wall of the often postphlebitic vein to form a
monocuspid or bicuspid valve, with proper sutures placed to
form a functioning valve. Regarding the ﬁrst three techniques,
small case series have been reported, but they lack corroborative series from other surgeons. Raju and Hardy reported ﬁve
of seven patients to have healed recalcitrant VLUs within 4
months without recurrence during a 15- to 24-month observation period by use of the ﬁrst technique.383 Great saphenous
vein invagination has been reported in a single series, with 19
of 20 repairs remaining patent and competent at 10 months of
follow-up, with all VLUs healing within 6 months and no recurrences observed.407,408 The valve made of the anterior vein
wall with synthetic patch repair has reported excellent clinical
results (80% or better) for the ﬁrst year, but the number of
cases reported is small.
Creation of monocuspid or bicuspid valves from the
endoluminal lining of the post-thrombotic or even the primary diseased vein wall (neovalve) has been reported from
a single site. It has undergone modiﬁcations over the years,
and recent reports show 85% patency/competency rate
with about 85% healed and ulcer-free recurrence rate at a
mean of 28 months. All valves were patent. There was a
95% ulcer healing rate and two recurrent ulcers.409,410
These techniques are performed in cases that are highly
selected and have no other known valvular restorative potential. The procedures must be considered technically
challenging and still in need of corroborative data before
wider dissemination. Their use should be limited to experienced venous reconstructive surgeons in patients without
other viable options.
Guideline 6.14: Proximal Chronic Total Venous
Occlusion/Severe Stenosis With Skin Changes at Risk
for Venous Leg Ulcer (C4b), Healed (C5) or Active
(C6) Venous Leg UlcerdEndovascular Repair
In a patient with inferior vena cava or iliac vein
chronic total occlusion or severe stenosis, with or
without lower extremity deep venous reﬂux disease,
that is associated with skin changes at risk for venous
leg ulcer (C4b), healed venous leg ulcer (C5), or active
venous leg ulcer (C6), we recommend venous angioplasty
and stent recanalization in addition to standard compression therapy to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

There is recognition of the importance of iliac vein
obstruction in both primary and post-thrombotic
CVD.175,411,412 Profound proximal obstruction in the iliocaval veins appears to be the predominant hemodynamic
pathophysiologic process compared with peripheral reﬂux
when both exist, although deﬁnitive proof of this has not
been tested. As a result, treatment priority is generally
accorded to the proximal occlusive disease when one is
faced with combined proximal obstruction and distal
valvular reﬂux. Percutaneous iliac and caval vein stenting
has been proved safe, with low morbidity, high patency,
and satisfactory efﬁcacy. Current results demonstrate a cumulative patency rate of 90% with ulcer healing rates of
60% to 80%, depending on the cohort being treated
(Table XIII).173,413-418 Percutaneous iliac and caval vein
stenting has become the preferred technique of many centers for iliocaval and some common femoral vein occlusive/
stenotic conditions, such as the post-thrombotic condition
or that of the May-Thurner primary disorder when it is
technically achievable.419-427 Extension of the iliac vein
stent below the inguinal ligament did not result in stent
fracture, erosion, arteriovenous ﬁstula, or higher incidence
of stent thrombosis than is inherent to post-thrombotic
disease.428 In the presence of combined iliac obstruction
and infrainguinal reﬂux, treatment of the iliac obstruction
is recommended as the ﬁrst procedure, with repair of reﬂux
below the iliac level reserved for persistently symptomatic
cases.
Guideline 6.15: Proximal Chronic Venous Occlusion/Severe Stenosis (Bilateral) With Recalcitrant
Venous UlcerdOpen Repair
In a patient with inferior vena cava or iliac vein
chronic occlusion or severe stenosis, with or without
lower extremity deep venous reﬂux disease, that is associated with a recalcitrant venous leg ulcer and failed
endovascular treatment, we suggest open surgical bypass
with use of an externally supported expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene graft in addition to standard compression
therapy to aid in venous leg ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
Most series suggest the need for large conduits from
normal distal to normal proximal vein with supportive arteriovenous ﬁstula to increase ﬂow during early healing. No

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

40S O’Donnell et al

Table XIII. Evidence summary for endovascular iliocaval stents placed for total venous occlusive disease

Venous stenosis
Hartung et al413
Meng et al414
Raju and Neglen173
Neglen et al415
Ye et al416
Chronic total occlusions
Raju and Neglen417
Rosales et al418

Year

No. of limbs/limbs with ulcers

Follow-up, years

Cumulative patency

% Ulcers healed

2009
2011
2006
2007

89/6
272/78
99/19 (inferior vena cava only)
982/167

7
5
4
6

83%
85%
62%
58%

2012

224/63

4

93%
94%
82%
Nonthrombotic: 100%
Thrombotic: 86%
99%

2009
2010

139/32
34/7

4
7

66%
90%

58%
57%

RCTs exist in this area, but credible series from specialized
centers report a beneﬁt and have been summarized in
recent reviews.371,373,429-433
Guideline 6.16: Unilateral Iliofemoral Venous
Occlusion/Severe Stenosis With Recalcitrant Venous
UlcerdOpen Repair
In a patient with unilateral iliofemoral venous occlusion/severe stenosis with recalcitrant venous leg ulcer for whom attempts at endovascular reconstruction
have failed, we suggest open surgical bypass with use
of saphenous vein as a cross-pubic bypass (Palma procedure) to aid in venous ulcer healing and to prevent
recurrence. A synthetic graft is an alternative in the
absence of autogenous tissue. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - C]
A number of case series report experiences with the crosspubic bypass, a femoral vein to femoral vein bypass with use of
autogenous vein. Patency has been based on clinical outcome
and not objective assessment in earlier series, whereas more
recent case series using venography or duplex ultrasonography to assess patency report 5-year secondary patency rates
of w75%. Risk factors for suboptimal outcomes include the
low pressure in the venous system, a small saphenous vein
(<5 mm), and technical imperfections such as kinking of
the graft. A prosthetic bypass for venous obstruction is a
salvage procedure when endovenous stenting or venous
bypass is not feasible. Lower overall patency rates than with
a Palma procedure can be expected.371,431,434-436
Guideline 6.17: Proximal Chronic Total Venous
Occlusion/Severe Stenosis (Bilateral or Unilateral)
With Recalcitrant Venous UlcerdAdjunctive Arteriovenous Fistula
For those patients who would beneﬁt from an open
venous bypass, we suggest the addition of an adjunctive
arteriovenous ﬁstula (4-6 mm in size) as an adjunct to
improve inﬂow into autologous or prosthetic crossover
bypasses when the inﬂow is judged to be poor to aid in
venous leg ulcer healing and to prevent recurrence.
[GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

82%

An adjunctive arteriovenous ﬁstula has been used to
enhance patency after venous procedures. An arteriovenous ﬁstula can produce distal venous hypertension if
the ﬁstulas are too large. Because this pressure difference
will negate the purpose of a venous bypass performed
for relief of venous hypertension, use of an arteriovenous ﬁstula should be temporary and its size should
be controlled to avoid excessive ﬂow. A suitably sized
prosthetic sleeve around the ﬁstula is one method to
achieve this effect and allows later percutaneous closure
with coil.437-440
ANCILLARY MEASURES
In addition to speciﬁc treatments for VLU, such as
wound care, compression therapy, and operative/endovascular interventions described in prior guidelines, some
ancillary complementary measures have been used to
improve ulcer healing.441-449 This section reviews nutrition, systemic drug therapy, physiotherapy, lymphatic massage, and balneotherapy options.
Guideline 7.1: Nutrition Assessment and
Management
We recommend that nutrition assessment be performed in any patient with a venous leg ulcer who
has evidence of malnutrition and that nutritional supplementation be provided if malnutrition is identiﬁed.
[BEST PRACTICE]
Nutrition must be adequate to provide sufﬁcient protein to support the growth of granulation tissue. Although
most VLU patients are ambulatory and not as nutritionally
depleted as patients who require frequent or chronic hospitalization, nutritional support is required if an individual is
undernourished.450,451 Deﬁciency in vitamins A and E,
carotene, proteins, and zinc was found in patients with
VLUs.452 In addition, elderly individuals susceptible to
development of ulcers may have insufﬁcient intake of proteins, vitamins, and minerals.453-455 These patients demonstrate improved ulcer healing rates when these deﬁciencies
are corrected. However, no beneﬁcial effect was demonstrated in supplementing patients without deﬁciencies.450

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

Whereas one small study456 reported healing of 13 of 18
patients with VLUs refractory to treatment after 4 months
of oral administration of zinc sulfate (220 mg three times
daily), ﬁve other trials failed to conﬁrm these results.457
Guideline 7.2: Systemic Drug Therapy
For long-standing or large venous leg ulcer, we
recommend treatment with either pentoxifylline or
micronized puriﬁed ﬂavonoid fraction used in combination with compression therapy. [GRADE - 1;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Several systemic drugs have been evaluated for their
potential role in improving VLU healing. Noting the limitation of oxygen diffusion in ulcerations by a pericapillary
ﬁbrin cuff,458,459 an RCT comparing stanozolol (anabolic
steroid with proﬁbrinolytic effect) with placebo was performed, but despite previously demonstrated activity on lipodermatosclerosis in CVD, the drug failed to show
superiority over placebo.460 A randomized multicenter
placebo-controlled trial of another proﬁbrinolytic and
antithrombotic drug, sulodexide (puriﬁed glycosaminoglycan), was encouraging and showed improved VLU healing in 235 patients treated for 3 months.461 Platelet
inhibitors have also been studied in RCTs of VLUs, but
aspirin and ifetroban (oral thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist) have failed to show beneﬁcial effect on healing.462,463
Prostaglandin E1 is known for properties that reduce white
cell activation and platelet aggregation and increase vasodilation. An intravenous treatment with prostaglandin E1 was
tested in VLUs and demonstrated reduced time to healing,
improved complete healing rate, and improvement in other
outcomes pertinent to chronic venous disorders, such as
edema and venous symptoms.464-466 The constraint of
intravenous infusion (3 hours daily for 6 weeks), however,
makes this therapy difﬁcult to recommend. The discovery
of the involvement of leukocytes in the pathophysiologic
mechanism of VLUs has opened another pathway for successful investigations.467
Two systemic drugs interacting with leukocyte activation have demonstrated an effect on VLU healing, micronized puriﬁed ﬂavonoid fraction (MPFF or Daﬂon)14,468-476
and pentoxifylline.286,474,477-483 MPFF protects the microcirculation from the damage induced by venous ambulatory
hypertension. Clinical outcome measures in ﬁve RCTs of
VLUs and a meta-analysis (723 patients involved) showed
that adjunctive to compression therapy and local wound
care, MPFF increased the healing rate (at 6 months, relative
risk reduction was 32%; 95% CI, 3%-70%) and shortened
time to ulcer healing,29-31 with a favorable cost-effectiveness31,32 and improved venous symptoms.28,29 MPFF is
used worldwide but is not FDA approved in the United
States. Pentoxifylline was initially developed to treat PAD
and has been used off label in VLUs. It has a powerful
inhibitory effect on cytokine-mediated neutrophil activation, white cell adhesion to endothelium, and oxidative
stress.484 In nine RCTs (eight vs placebo) including a total

O’Donnell et al 41S

of 572 patients, pentoxifylline combined with compression
improved ulcer healing with a relative risk ratio compared
with placebo of 1.4 [95% CI, 1.19-1.66].477
Guideline 7.3: Physiotherapy
We suggest supervised active exercise to improve
muscle pump function and to reduce pain and edema
in patients with venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
The goal of physiotherapy in treating VLUs is to
decrease venous pressure and edema. This can be achieved
through activation of the calf muscle pump by speciﬁc exercises of the ankle or by biomechanical stimulation of the
calf muscle pump. Lifestyle changes and a medical program
of speciﬁc exercises (individual or in group) can improve
both calf muscle function and ankle mobility. The
improved function of the calf muscle pump results in
both improved ejection fraction and residual volume of
the venous reservoir. VLU patients showed signiﬁcantly
reduced values of ankle range of motion, walking speed
and endurance, self-perceived exertion, mobility, and physical activity level.485-487 A recent literature review that studied the importance of lifestyle changes and self-care
activities in preventing recurrence of VLUs identiﬁed 16
studies. This review concluded that there is some evidence
to support a beneﬁcial impact of increased physical activity,
improved mobility, and foot exercises on lowering recurrence.488 A Dutch RCT investigated the effectiveness of
the Lively Leg self-management program and showed a
decrease in the duration of VLUs and increased use of
leg exercises in patients who received the additional lifestyle
counseling.461 The time to recurrence and compliance to
compression, however, were not affected. Other online
coaching and home-based exercises programs were successfully developed.489-491 Two prospective studies focused on
the impact of supervised exercise. An RCT in patients with
skin changes or ulceration demonstrated a signiﬁcant
improvement of calf pump function after a 6-month program of structured exercise.492 Another study concluded
that even a short 7-day period of supervised isotonic calf
muscle exercises in patients with VLUs improves global hemodynamics in limbs with ulceration.493 A program of
venous rehabilitation that includes four phases of training
(warming, exercises on a speciﬁc bike, walking, and relaxation) showed some beneﬁt in a recent study.494 Because
mobilization of the foot and ankle joint increases venous
reﬁlling and reduces venous pressure, passive manipulation
of the ankle has been also proposed, but there is no evidence of the beneﬁcial effect for VLUs. Orthopedic treatment might be indicated for foot anomalies, but there is
no evidence supporting improvement of venous plantar
pump function.
Guideline 7.4: Manual Lymphatic Drainage
We suggest against adjunctive lymphatic drainage for
healing of the chronic venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]

42S O’Donnell et al

Massage of the leg to improve lymphatic drainage is
well established as an effective therapy in patients with lymphedema. Manual lymphatic drainage increases the transport capacity of the lymphatics, stimulates development
of lymphatic collaterals, and softens ﬁbrotic tissue. This is
suggested as a good adjunctive treatment in some resistant
ulcers associated with venolymphatic edema, but there is
no formal supporting evidence.495 One RCT showed that
lymph drainage improved the mobility of the ankle joint
affected by dermatoﬁbrosis in patients with chronic ulcerated
lesions but did not show beneﬁt in ulcer healing.496
Guideline 7.5: Balneotherapy
We suggest balneotherapy to improve skin trophic changes and quality of life in patients with
advanced venous disease. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - B]
Balneotherapy, spa therapy, or thermalism was studied
in some European centers that specialize in the treatment
of CVD.497 This complex therapy might beneﬁt patients
with VLUs because of mobilization of ﬂuids and decrease
of edema; improvement of venous hemodynamic, microcirculation, and skin oxygenation; and increase in circulatory
treatment velocity. The efﬁcacy of hydromassage therapy
with thermal water has been demonstrated in patients
with varicose veins. The beneﬁcial results were attributed
to the favorable action of hydrostatic pressure, which stimulated venous ﬂow, as well as to the characteristics of the
thermal water used in this study.498 Another trial also
concluded that hydrotherapy may help patients suffering
from primary varicose veins.499 An RCT showed that spa
therapy, associated with balneotherapy and patient education, signiﬁcantly and durably improved trophic skin
changes, quality of life, and symptoms in patients with
CVD but did not ﬁnd a difference in VLU
recurrences.497
Guideline 7.6: Ultraviolet light
We suggest against use of ultraviolet light for the
treatment of venous leg ulcers. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL
OF EVIDENCE - C]
Ultraviolet light has been proposed for the treatment
of VLUs to increase skin blood ﬂow and to reduce hypoxia.
However, the results of one clinical prospective study
showed that ultraviolet irradiation improves skin oxygenation for only 48 hours, and therefore it cannot be recommended until there is further supporting evidence.500
PRIMARY PREVENTION
VLUs develop because of ambulatory venous hypertension, which is related primarily to venous valvular reﬂux.
Meaningful ways to prevent VLUs in patients at risk are
effective but limited by lack of provider knowledge of diagnosis and treatment and patient compliance with the

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

primary means of prevention, which is compression.
Equally important for prevention of VLUs in patients
with DVT is adherence to evidence-based guidelines
for prevention of DVT recurrence. In this section, current
evidence for therapies related to primary prevention of
VLUs is reviewed.
Guideline 8.1: Primary PreventiondClinical CEAP
C3-4 Primary Venous Disease
In patients with clinical CEAP C3-4 disease due to
primary valvular reﬂux, we recommend compression,
20 to 30 mm Hg, knee or thigh high. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
The concept behind compression is to reduce edema
and inﬂammation related to venous hypertension in the
lower limbs, particularly in the gaiter region, where
VLUs are most likely to develop. Patients may progress
from C2 to C3-C6 at 2% per year.501 Patients with C3-4
disease have a moderate risk of progressing to venous stasis
ulceration, depending on their comorbidities and lifestyle
habits.502 One study has shown that approximately one
third of patients with signiﬁcant reﬂux progress in CEAP
class during 19 months.503 Several risk factors for progression have been identiﬁed. Obese patients who stand for
prolonged periods may be at higher risk than active nonobese patients, whereas patients with altered iron metabolism
have been shown to have an increased risk for VLU.55
Unfortunately, there are no prospective studies of large
populations that deﬁne the risk of progression to C6
disease.504
Typically, limbs that go on to ulcerate have signiﬁcantly
worse ejection fraction and increased residual volume fraction by air plethysmography.505 Improvement in calf muscle function (ejection fraction) and reduced residual
volume fraction are the primary mechanisms of compression.506,507 A recent meta-analysis showed that leg symptoms, primarily pain and edema, are also signiﬁcantly
improved with use of compression.508 The types of
compression as well as the length and grade of the garment
vary among the different manufacturers. Overall, no evidence exists that one type of compression, duration, or
stocking length is more efﬁcacious than any other. Negative gradient compression hose with up to 60 mm Hg
calf and 50 mm Hg foot are associated with improvement
in calf muscle pump function compared with graduated
compression.509,510
We recommend 20 to 30 mm Hg compression with
the length (knee high or thigh high) determined by patient
preference. Compliance with compression is important for
its beneﬁcial effect yet may not always be well documented
or emphasized. Difﬁculty in application of compression
garments may play a role in noncompliance, which may increase with higher compression levels.508 Other reasons
exist for noncompliance, including transient conditions
such as pregnancy or recent venous surgery.501,511 Good
compliance produces effective results. For example, in a
large population-based study, most patients with C1-4

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

disease found that compression therapy signiﬁcantly
improved swelling, heaviness, and pain with overall >70%
compliance during 6-year follow-up.501 Unlike treatment
for VLU recurrence prevention, when compression is
used for prophylaxis against VLU in those at risk, there is
no evidence that high levels of compression are more effective than lesser. A meta-analysis of 11 RCTs of compression
for CVI suggested that the level of compression needed to
be at least 10 to 15 mm Hg, but higher levels were not
necessarily beneﬁcial.508 Thus, as a balance between effectiveness and compliance, the more moderate compression
level is recommended. Last, follow-up after prescription
of compression is important to address the patient’s needs
related to compression ﬁtting and may be a way to enhance
compliance. Although weak evidence exists, compression
may decrease long-term costs associated with CVI. In a
Markov decision analysis, use of compression was associated with an estimated savings of $17,000 during a patient’s lifetime.512 However, this study used a
hypothetical patient with C5 disease and did not directly
assess lower clinical classes of venous reﬂux. Regardless,
this study provides support for use of compression in those
at risk for VLU without signiﬁcant downside to use of
compression.
Guideline 8.2: Primary PreventiondClinical CEAP
C1-4 Post-thrombotic Venous Disease
In patients with clinical CEAP C1-4 disease related
to prior deep venous thrombosis (DVT), we recommend compression, 30 to 40 mm Hg, knee or thigh
high. [GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
Venous reﬂux related to PTS typically is associated with
more severe symptoms than is primary valvular reﬂux, progresses to a more severe CEAP class, and may confer
increased risk for VLU.513,514 Venous occlusion does increase the risk of severe CVI, as the thrombus becomes a
thick and collagen-dense occlusive lesion.503 Combined
deep and superﬁcial disease is likely after DVT and is associated with higher CEAP class.515 The entire vein wall is
often damaged by the thrombotic process, even with recanalization, as demonstrated by duplex ultrasound. Whether
a segment of the deep vein system remains occluded or is
recanalized, normal venous function is lost. After recanalization, the valves are incompetent, with signiﬁcant
reﬂux.516
Given the more aggressive long-term course of PTS,
we recommend 30 to 40 mm Hg compression hose, either
knee or thigh high. Two large RCTs support the use of
compression to decrease the occurrence of PTS.197,517,518
Overall, a reduction of w50% was observed. Lesser
compression strength, such as 20 to 30 mm Hg, is not as
effective.519 Multilayer compression is effective only for
symptoms and not for development of PTS.520 The duration of compression for efﬁcacy has not been rigorously
determined by prospective studies.521 However, per the
current American College of Chest Physicians 2012 guidelines, use of compression stockings immediately after

O’Donnell et al 43S

diagnosis of DVT and continued compression for at least
6 months to 2 years are supported.522 A large recent
RCT calls this into question, but for now, we believe the
harms for this therapy are low.523
Use of IPC may be helpful to relieve PTS symptoms,
but its role in preventing VLU is unknown.524,525 Use of
IPC should be based on individual assessments as little evidence exists. A small randomized crossover trial in patients
with PTS found that compared with placebo-level pressure,
IPC with a level of compression of 50 mm Hg was associated with a signiﬁcant improvement in symptoms.524 However, the hard end point of VLU prevention was not
assessed. Two other groups of patients who may beneﬁt
from IPC are those with severe difﬁculty in donning standard compression stockings and those who are immobile.526,527 Here, studies focusing on the physiology of
decreased venous pressure and reduced interstitial edema
suggest beneﬁt for the latter group.
Guideline 8.3: Primary PreventiondAcute DVT
Treatment
As post-thrombotic syndrome is a common preceding event for venous leg ulcers, we recommend current
evidence-based therapies for acute DVT treatment.
[GRADE - 1; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B] We suggest
use of low-molecular-weight heparin over vitamin K
antagonist therapy of 3-month duration to decrease
post-thrombotic syndrome. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF
EVIDENCE - B] We suggest catheter-directed thrombolysis in patients with low bleeding risk with iliofemoral DVT of duration <14 days. [GRADE - 2;
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - B]
The goal of DVT treatment is twofold: ﬁrst, to prevent venous embolization to the pulmonary circulation
from the thrombus; and second, to prevent propagation
and recurrence of DVT, a direct factor for PTS. Venous
stasis ulceration is the end-stage manifestation of PTS
and is disabling and even limb-threatening.528 PTS treatment is primarily palliative, and thus prevention of DVT
is paramount. There are numerous risk factors for PTS
development,529 and recurrent DVT in the same segment
of a prior DVT contributes most signiﬁcantly to this
process.530
Current well-established evidence-based guidelines
are available from the 2012 American College of Chest
Physicians guidelines.522 Referral to this document for
details and references, as the evidence-based recommendations are thorough, is recommended. There are several
salient points for the treatment of acute DVT to summarize. First, rapid parenteral anticoagulation with either
low-molecular-weight heparin or fondaparinux is indicated
over intravenous unfractionated heparin (Grade 1A), as this
may increase DVT recanalization.531 Second, early use of
compression is recommended, generally within 24 hours
of diagnosis (Grade 2C). Third, early ambulation and
limiting of bed rest are recommended.532 Fourth,

44S O’Donnell et al

transition from a parenteral agent to vitamin K antagonist
with at least 3-month treatment is the minimum duration.
In certain cases, consideration of the new oral anticoagulants, such as factor IIa or Xa oral inhibitors, may be indicated if the patient is intolerant of warfarin, although the
evidence for these agents is less well documented.533
Last, a recent RCT suggests that low-dose aspirin may
decrease recurrent DVT in those treated initially with 6
to 12 months of parenteral anticoagulation.534
Recent data, primarily from one study, suggest that
low-molecular-weight heparin for 3 months may be more
effective than a vitamin K antagonist for preventing PTS,
with signiﬁcantly fewer ulcers observed during 1 year of
follow-up.535 A systemic review also suggested that lowmolecular-weight heparin may decrease VLUs at 3 months
by w87%.536 More evidence is needed to conﬁrm these results, and whether the new oral anticoagulants offer antiﬁbrotic beneﬁts remains unproven.
Long-term therapeutic anticoagulation is associated
with lower DVT recurrence rates and, depending on the
clinical circumstances of recurrence risk vs bleeding risk,
should direct the duration of therapy.522 An adjunctive
measure to determine duration of anticoagulation is the
measurement of D-dimer 1 month after cessation of anticoagulation. An RCT showed that if a patient’s D-dimer
level remains elevated, venous thromboembolism recurrence risk is signiﬁcantly elevated (w2.5-fold), and continuation or reinstitution of anticoagulation is recommended,
usually for life.537 If the D-dimer level is normal, cessation
of anticoagulation is usually safe. Second, use of duplex ultrasonography for detection of residual vein wall thickening
or obstruction (scar tissue, or “residual thrombus”) may be
beneﬁcial, although the evidence is more variable in the
literature, varying from 2.5- to 9.7-fold increased
risk.538,539 If a patient has an extensively irregular or
occluded long segment of vein, this may be a marker for
increased risk of recurrent DVT, and thus continued anticoagulation may be beneﬁcial.
Last, the use of catheter-directed thrombolysis
compared with best medical therapy may signiﬁcantly
decrease PTS. The recent CaVenT trial compared best
medical therapy with adjunctive catheter-directed thrombolysis in an RCT of patients with iliofemoral DVT.540
In 209 patients, the absolute risk reduction at 24 months
was 14.4% (0.2%-28%) in PTS reduction, as assessed by Villalta score. However, several occurrences of major bleeding
did occur, offsetting some of the beneﬁt. In properly
selected patients, the beneﬁt of catheter-directed thrombolysis outweighs the risks, particularly with modern catheter thrombus removal techniques and experienced
practitioners.541
Guideline 8.4: Primary PreventiondEducation
Measures
In patients with C1-4 disease, we suggest patient
and family education, regular exercise, leg elevation
when at rest, careful skin care, weight control, and
appropriately ﬁtting foot wear. [BEST PRACTICE]

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

In patients with C3 and C4 disease of primary valvular
reﬂux or C1-C4 disease related to DVT, we recommend
regular ambulation or equivalent exercise, leg elevation
when in bed or recumbent, good skin care to maintain
skin moisture and to prevent drying and cracking, and footwear that is well ﬁtted. Leg elevation is effective in patients
with C4 disease by increasing microcirculatory ﬂow.542
Although employing only a surrogate measure, a prospective study of exercise in 20 patients showed similar results in C5 patients, with an improvement in calf muscle
pump function.543 A structured review also suggested a
positive effect of exercise (ambulation) on calf muscle
pump function, although not directly assessed for VLU
occurrence.443 An RCT of structured exercise with 31 patients with C3 or higher clinical class venous disease
showed improved calf muscle pump function compared
with no speciﬁc exercise.492 It is not uncommon for patients to have both venous reﬂux and diabetes, and standard guidelines in foot care for diabetics have been
produced.544
Evidence for all these measures in preventing VLU is
weak. In consideration of shoe types, one study suggested
that high heels may decrease hydrostatic pressure at the ankles.545 A separate study using air plethysmography showed
that high heels were associated with decreased ejection
fraction and increased residual volume fraction.546 However, speciﬁc footwear and risk of VLU has not been tested,
but caution should be exercised in those with C3 or higher
clinical class venous disease. One study also suggested that
correction of pedal podalic angle with special insoles may
increase the calf muscle pump function.547
No data exist for educational interventions in those
with CVI to prevent VLU. However, the cost of and risk
to patients and family education are likely to be reasonable,
with little potential for harm. Knowledge of family history
of maternal venous reﬂux is important as a prognostic factor
for development of VLU.513 Moreover, education of caregivers who interact with patients with C1 to C4 disease
is equally important. It is recommended that all vascular
specialists make the effort to educate primary caregivers.
Guideline 8.5: Primary PreventiondOperative
Therapy
In patients with asymptomatic C1-2 disease from
either primary or secondary causes, we suggest against
prophylactic interventional therapies to prevent venous
leg ulcer. [GRADE - 2; LEVEL OF EVIDENCE - C]
In patients with C1-2 disease from either primary or
secondary causes, it is unclear if interventional therapies
prevent long-term VLU occurrence, in contrast to good
supporting evidence for surgery and VLU recurrence. A
direct link between early treatment of superﬁcial venous
reﬂux and long-term VLU incidence is only circumstantial.
In a large study from Nelzen, a 50% reduction in VLU was
found to correlate with a better diagnosis and treatment of
superﬁcial disease.21 Whereas there have been no trials
assessing primary VLU prevention in those with C1-2

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

disease, superﬁcial venous interventions for secondary prevention decrease recurrent VLU.288 Similarly, there is no
evidence that prophylactic repair of the deep venous
valvular system can decrease long-term VLUs in those patients who have not manifested any such entity.
The goal of surgical treatments should be to improve
the patient’s symptoms, including leg pain, swelling, and
discomfort. To achieve this goal, numerous interventions
exist for treatment of superﬁcial venous disease as well as
deep system disease for secondary prevention of VLU,
speciﬁed in the section on operative/endovascular management and in other guidelines for comprehensive management of superﬁcial venous disease.23
FUTURE DIRECTIONS/CONCLUSIONS
The SVS/AVF Evidence-Based Clinical Practice
Guidelines for Management of Venous Leg Ulcers is the
end result of a programmatic initiative by the AVF “to
reduce the incidence of venous ulcer 50% over the next
decade”29 combined with the need for clinical practice
guidelines for VLUs, as recognized by the SVS Document
Oversight Committee. With the primary target audience
for these guidelines, specialists who treat VLUs, the current
guidelines attempt to update as well as to address gaps in
prior VLU guidelines. A recent systematic analysis of existing VLU guidelines demonstrated concordance in certain
areas but signiﬁcant management gaps in others, such as
advanced wound therapies, role of thermal ablation of superﬁcial venous disease, valve reconstruction, and treatment of outﬂow obstruction by stenting, all of which
were not addressed in previous guideline documents.18 Toward that end, formal new systematic review and metaanalyses were performed for two areas, compression and
surgical/endovascular treatments.30,31
The current SVS/AVF clinical practice guidelines are
based on the best level of evidence currently available for
a recommendation. The strength of a recommendation
for a speciﬁc guideline is tempered by the quality of evidence supporting that recommendation. The SVS/AVF
Joint Clinical Practice Guidelines Committee has reviewed
the grading of recommendations within each subcommittee and as an overall group with an eye toward a
critical assessment. Overall, the evidence level for venous
ulcer management is mostly of moderate strength, and as
a consequence, most recommendations as a whole achieve
lower grades, Grade 2B (18.6%) and Grade 2C (53.3%); in
some instances, the recommendations may not be graded
and are designated Best Practice (10.7%). Parenthetically
it should be noted that the current American College of
Chest Physicians guidelines for antithrombotic therapy
and prevention of thrombosis contain no Grade 1A recommendations.522 This observation points to the need for
more well-done randomized controlled studies on the
management of VLUs. Whereas the current VLU guidelines attempt to cover the state of evidence as it exists
today, as more evidence comes to fruition, updates and
modiﬁcations will be required on an ongoing basis, so
that these VLU guidelines become “living documents.”

O’Donnell et al 45S

The treatment of VLU currently is hampered by a siloed
approach, that is, just focusing on ulcer healing or ulcer
recurrence rather than on the continuum of care. For
expressing and assessing cost/resource utilization as well
as quality of outcomes, how long the skin remains in an
ulcer-free state (ulcer-free interval), as expressed by the
percentage of the follow-up period that the skin is ulcer
free, is a more valuable metric.
Key points from the current guidelines and areas of
evidence needed to assist with future directions for VLU
management are summarized as follows.
Venous Ulcer Deﬁnition and Pathophysiology
A classiﬁcation system of VLU into meaningful groups
in which comparative studies with different treatments can
be carried out is needed. This is necessary and cogent
because there is such diversity of disease entities under
the broad term venous ulcer. Pure venous ulcer: Reﬂux
into ulcer region by any route superﬁcial or perforator or
deep without identiﬁable additional disease. Mixed venous
ulcer: Reﬂux or obstruction creating venous hypertension
in region of venous ulcer in presence of identiﬁable additional disease.
Additional pathologic processes that are risk factors for
venous disease need to be categorized, such as arterial
occlusive disease, infection, inﬂammatory (dermatitis,
allergic, autoimmune), lymphedema, and morbid obesity.
Each of these disease processes presents additional barriers
that may require separate adjunctive treatment for the ulcer
to heal. If untreated, they can prolong healing even after
correction of venous reﬂux.
The study of the inﬂammatory cascade that allows
benign reﬂux to cause tissue changes leading to and
becoming VLU needs to be expanded. Understanding of
why some patients who have varicosities down to the ankle
associated with long-standing venous reﬂux can convert to
CEAP C4b-C6 severity is missing. If the cause is inﬂammation, then speciﬁc treatment of the inﬂammatory problem
with steroids or other measures may need to be included
in addition to correction of the reﬂux or obstruction.
Clinical Evaluation
The current management of VLU depends on accurate
identiﬁcation and assessment of the presence of venous disease underlying wound behavior. Accurate anatomic and
functional venous and wound classiﬁcation is required.
Whereas duplex ultrasound is an essential tool in achieving
venous disease diagnosis, additional imaging modalities that
aid in assessing wound biology and the physiologic impact
of wound and venous disease therapy are needed. The role
of outﬂow imaging for patients with suspected iliocaval stenosis/occlusion requires further development. Additional
validation of venous disease and wound classiﬁcation systems
and quality outcome measures is needed to allow better
comparative analysis evidence of therapeutic modalities.
Wound Care. The wound care ﬁeld continues to
evolve and expand. Drivers include an aging society,
increasing prevalence of obesity and other comorbid

46S O’Donnell et al

conditions, and an ever-expanding therapeutic arsenal of
new treatment technologies. The current VLU guidelines
address the most important clinical issues surrounding
advanced wound care, including wound bed preparation,
control of bacterial colonization and infection, and
débridement techniques and frequency, which are all critical to achieving healing outcomes. Novel diagnostic
methods under development for the rapid identiﬁcation
of bacteria and inﬂammatory cytokine levels will likely
result in the need for additional comparative effectiveness
research in the near future for clinicians to decide on best
practice options. Use of these diagnostic modalities may
allow patient-speciﬁc therapeutics to enhance the potential
for rapid wound healing.
A broad range of therapeutic modalities employing
various forms of electromagnetic energy transfer may be
used adjunctively for the healing of chronic wounds.
Currently, there is a lack of standardization concerning energy settings, treatment frequency, and methods of energy
delivery, making ﬁrm recommendations difﬁcult. There are
more treatments under evaluation presently, with some
methods combining energy sources. These data will need
to be evaluated in future updates. Last, there has been
recent expansion of cellular and acellular biologic dressings.
These products can be human or animal derived and come
in myriad formats. Currently, there are no comparative
effectiveness studies available to help guide the clinician
to make appropriate decisions on use of these products. Evidence in this expanding ﬁeld will need to be evaluated so
that populations of patients who would beneﬁt the most
from speciﬁc tissue products can be identiﬁed. A signiﬁcant
role for patient-centered outcomes measures also needs to
be incorporated into trial design in the future. The patient’s preferences will need to be balanced with clinical efﬁcacy and economic factors in the face of health care
reform.
Compression
The use of compression has been a fundamental treatment component for VLU, but certain knowledge gaps still
exist. Objective measures of the “dose” of compression
should be used in future studies. These measures, which
include resting interface pressure at a standard point and
stiffness (change in this pressure during standing and
walking), need to be factored into compression effectiveness. These objective measures should replace such current
classiﬁcations as “elastic” and “inelastic” bandages, especially for multibandage systems. The real behavior of a
bandage and bandage system is not the elastic property
tested in the laboratory but its clinical behavior on the leg.
Even a single bandage applied with overlaps becomes a
multilayer wrap with different mechanical properties. The
friction between multiple layers increases stiffness of the
wraps, especially when the surface of a component is adhesive
or cohesive and when substances like zinc paste are used.
In assessing the role of compression, there are other
needs. Standard training with objective quality control

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

should be used in studies of bandages and bandage systems; most of the comparative studies to date were performed in centers inexperienced with short-stretch
material. A large-scale RCT is needed to study whether
compression prevents the recurrence of venous ulcers.
The role of IPC in treatment of venous ulcer patients needs
to be deﬁned, especially in patients who cannot tolerate
compression therapy or who have failed to respond to prolonged compression therapy alone. Finally, methods for
assessing the patient’s compliance with wearing of these
garments/devices that are better than “patient diaries”
should be developed. These monitoring devices are being
employed in the treatment of other diseases, like the diabetic foot.
Operative/Endovascular. Unfortunately, the quality
of evidence to support recommendations for operative
and endovascular management is limited to level C evidence. This lower level of evidence is due to the absence
of comparative prospective RCTs, with the exception of
a few studies that address treatment of superﬁcial venous
disease. Even the data in the treatment of superﬁcial
insufﬁciency, as suggested by the commissioned metaanalysis, are limited in scope. The data derived from
open procedures (ligation and stripping RCTs) have been
extrapolated to results that might be achieved with
thermal ablation. Future investigations need to address
this deﬁciency in a meaningful way to push the ﬁeld
forward.
Many recommendations regarding healed patients or
patients with potential VLU are based on extrapolations
from the data obtained from patients with active VLUs.
Each speciﬁc patient condition needs focused investigation
to determine what “best care” is. Several methods of great
and small saphenous ablation are under investigation and
may provide even less risk for the beneﬁts provided.
Many in the venous community have reserved deep
venous reconstruction for those cases in which nothing
else has been successful. This treatment option has been
a forgotten therapeutic alternative for a growing population of patients with deep venous insufﬁciency in whom
nonsurgical and superﬁcial venous intervention has been
unsuccessful. Because of the ease of other interventions
or a misguided assumption, there is room to reinvestigate
this assumption by comparing repair of deep venous insufﬁciency vs outﬂow obstruction interventions in patients
who have both conditions.
Ancillary. Ancillary measures to improve ulcer healing
include adequate nutrition to provide sufﬁcient vitamins,
minerals, and protein to support the growth of granulation
tissue. Whereas pentoxifylline and micronized puriﬁed
ﬂavonoid fraction, both in combination with compression
therapy, have demonstrated a beneﬁcial effect on ulcer
healing, these medications are not widely used. Better understanding of the pathophysiologic mechanism of the
VLU may help develop other novel systemic or local treatment. Physiotherapy is a useful ancillary measure to VLU
healing as it improves calf muscle pump function and

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

reduces edema, but it is also not readily available. There is
moderate-quality evidence that increased physical activity,
improved mobility, and foot exercises decrease VLU
recurrence, but more standardization is required.
Primary Prevention. Cost-effectiveness of VLU prevention is difﬁcult to rigorously prove owing to the
requirement for large patient numbers in these trials and
the heterogeneous nature of CVI. Adequate compression
in a compliant patient with C1-C4 disease and the use of
evidence-based therapies for treatment with prevention of
DVT recurrence should go a long way toward decreasing
the incidence of VLU. Although much information is
available to patients online and by other sources, dissemination of preventive measures to front-line physicians and
advanced practice providers is critical for reaching the most
patients possible at risk of VLU.
As for all clinical classes of CVI, there is a knowledge
gap as to whether adequate compression and skin care
or, alternatively, surgical intervention for superﬁcial venous
incompetence prevents progression to another clinical disease level, speciﬁcally from C4 to C6.

REFERENCES
1. Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines, Institute of Medicine.
Guidelines for clinical practice: From development to use. Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 1992.
2. Ruckley CV. Socio-economic impact of chronic venous insufﬁciency
and leg ulcers. Angiology 1997;48:67-9.
3. Passman MA. Non-medical initiatives to decrease venous ulcer prevalence. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:29S-36S.
4. Tatsioni A, Balk E, O’Donnell TF Jr, Lau J. Usual care in the management of chronic wounds: A review of the recent literature. J Am
Coll Surg 2007;205:617-24.
5. Ruckley CV, Evans CJ, Allan P, Lee AJ, Fowkes GR. Chronic venous
insufﬁciency: Clinical and duplex correlations. The Edinburgh Vein
Study of venous disorders in the general population. J Vasc Surg
2002;36:520-5.
6. Fischer H. Venenleidendeine repräsentative Untersuchung in der
Bundesrepublik Deutschland (Tübinger Studie). München, Germany:
Urban & Schwarzenberg; 1981.
7. Jawien A, Grzela T, Ochwat A. Prevalence of chronic venous insufﬁciency in men and women in Poland: Multicenter cross-sectional
study in 40,095 patients. Phlebology 2003;18:110.
8. Carpentier PH, Maricq HR, Biro C, Poncot-Makinen CO, Franco A.
Prevalence, risk factors and clinical patterns of chronic venous disorders of lower limbs. A population-based study in France. J Vasc Surg
2004;40:650-9.
9. Rabe E, Pannier-Fischer F, Bromen K, Schuldt K, Stang A, Poncar C,
et al. Bonner Venenstudie der Deutschen Gesellschaft für Phlebologieepidemiologische Untersuchung zur Frage der Häuﬁgkeit und
Ausprägung von chronischen Venenkrankheiten in der städtischen
und ländlichen Wohnbevölkerung. Phlebologie 2003;32:1-14.
10. McLafferty RB, Passman MA, Caprini JA, Rooke TW, Markwell SA,
Lohr JM, et al. Increasing awareness about venous disease: The
American Venous Forum expands the National Venous Screening
Program. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:394-9.
11. Rhodes JM, Gloviczki P, Canton LG, Rooke T, Lewis BD,
Lindsey JR. Factors affecting clinical outcome following endoscopic
perforator vein ablation. Am J Surg 1998;176:162-7.
12. Nelzen O. Leq ulcers: Economic Aspects. Cost effectiveness analysis
of leg ulcers. Phlebology 2000;15:110-4.
13. Rippon M, Davies P, White R, Bosanquet N. The economic impact of
hard-to-heal leg ulcers. Wounds UK 2007;3:58-69.

O’Donnell et al 47S

14. Simka M, Majewski E. The social and economic burden of venous leg
ulcers: Focus on the role of micronized puriﬁed ﬂavonoid fraction
adjuvant therapy. Am J Clin Dermatol 2003;4:573-81.
15. Van Gent BW, Wilschut ED, Wittens CW. Management of venous
ulcer disease. BMJ 2010;341:c6045.
16. Olin JW, Beusterien KM, Childs MB, Seavey C, McHugh L,
Grifﬁths RI. Medical costs of treating venous stasis ulcers; evidence
from a retrospective cohort study. Vasc Med 1999;4:1-7.
17. Ma H, O’Donnell TF Jr, Rosen NA, Iafrati MD. The real costs of
treating venous ulcers in a contemporary vascular practice [published
online ahead of print June 24, 2014]. J Vasc Surg: Venous and Lym
Dis doi: 10.1016/j.jvsv.2014.04.006.
18. O’Donnell TF, Balk EM. The need for an Intersociety Consensus
Guideline for venous ulcer. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:83S-90S.
19. Olson JM, Raugi GJ, Nguyen VQ, et al. Guideline concordant venous
ulcer care predicts healing in a tertiary care Veterans Affairs Medical
Center. Wound Repair Regen 2009;17:666-70.
20. McGuckin M, Waterman R, Brooks J, Cherry G, Porten L, Hurley S,
et al. Validation of venous leg ulcer guidelines in the United States
and United Kingdom. Am J Surg 2002;183:132-7.
21. Nelzen O. Fifty percent reduction in venous ulcer prevalence is
achievabledSwedish experience. J Vasc Surg 2010;52(Suppl):39S-44S.
22. Forssgren A, Nelzén O. Changes in the aetiological spectrum of leg
ulcers after a broad-scale intervention in a deﬁned geographical
population in Sweden. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2012;44:498-503.
23. Gloviczki P, Comerota AJ, Dalsing MC, Eklof BG, Gillespie DL,
Gloviczki ML, et al. The care of patients with varicose veins and
associated chronic venous diseases: Clinical practice guidelines of the
Society for Vascular Surgery and the American Venous Forum. J Vasc
Surg 2011;53:2S-48S.
24. Meissner MH, Gloviczki P, Comerota AJ, Dalsing MC, Eklof BG,
Gillespie DL, et al. Early thrombus removal strategies for acute deep
venous thrombosis: Clinical Practice Guidelines of the Society for Vascular
Surgery and the American Venous Forum. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:1449-62.
25. Institute of Medicine. Clinical practice guidelines we can trust.
Washington, DC: The National Academies Press; 2011.
26. Sackett DL, Rosenburg WM, Gray JA, et al. Evidence based medicine: What it is and what it isn’t. BMJ 1996;312:71-2.
27. Meissner MH. “I enjoyed your talk, but.”: Evidence-based medicine
and the scientiﬁc foundation of the American Venous Forum. J Vasc
Surg 2009;49:244-8.
28. O’Donnell TF Jr, Lau J. A systematic review of randomized
controlled trials of wound dressings for chronic venous ulcer. J Vasc
Surg 2006;44:118-25.
29. Lurie F, Kistner RL, Eklof B, et al. The structure and processes of the
Paciﬁc Vascular Symposium. J Vasc Surg 2010;52(Suppl):3S-7S.
30. Mauck KF, Asi N, Elraiyah TA, Undavalli C, Nabhan M, Altayar O,
et al. Comparative systematic review and meta-analysis of compression
modalities for the promotion of venous ulcer healing and reducing
ulcer recurrence. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:73S-92S.
31. Mauck KF, Asi N, Undavalli C, Elraiyah TA, Nabhan M, Altavar O,
et al. Systematic review and meta-analysis of surgical interventions versus
conservative therapy from venous ulcers. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:60S-72S.
32. Guyatt G, Gutterman D, Baumann MH, Addrizzo-Harris D,
Hylek EM, Phillips B, et al. Grading strength of recommendations
and quality of evidence in clinical guidelines: Report from an American College of Chest Physicians task force. Chest 2006;129:174-81.
33. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for Vascular
Surgery including the experience with the GRADE framework. J Vasc
Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
34. Guyatt G, Oxman AD, Akl EA, Kunz R, Vist G, Brozek J, et al.
GRADE guidelines: 1. IntroductiondGRADE evidence proﬁles and
summary of ﬁndings tables. J Clin Epidemiol 2011;64:383-94.
35. Gloviczki P. Handbook of venous disorders: Guidelines of the
American Venous Forum. 3rd ed. London: Hodder Arnold; 2009.
36. Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Networkdupdate of SIGN 26.
The care of patients with chronic (venous) leg ulcers. August 2012.
Available at: www.sign.ac.uk/pdf/SIGN120.pdf. Accessed October
30, 2013.

48S O’Donnell et al

37. Haute Autorité de Santé (HAS). Clinical practice guidelines. Managing venous leg ulcers excluding dressings. June 2006. Available at:
www.has-sante.fr. Accessed October 30, 2013.
38. Caggiati A, Bergan JJ, Gloviczki P, Jantet G, Wendell-Smith CP,
Partsch H, International Interdisciplinary Consensus Committee on
Venous Anatomical Terminology. Nomenclature of the veins of the
lower limbs: An international interdisciplinary consensus statement.
J Vasc Surg 2002;36:416-22.
39. Caggiati A, Bergan JJ, Gloviczki P, Eklof B, Allegra C, Partsch H.
Nomenclature of the veins of the lower limb: Extensions, reﬁnements,
and clinical application J. Vasc Surg 2005;41:719-24.
40. Labropoulos N, Leon M, Nicolaides AN, Giannoukas AD, Volteas N,
Chan P. Superﬁcial venous insufﬁciency: Correlation of anatomic
extent of reﬂux with clinical symptoms and signs. J Vasc Surg
1994;20:953-8.
41. Meissner MH, Moneta G, Burnand K, Gloviczki P, Lohr JM, Lurie F,
et al. The hemodynamics and diagnosis of venous disease. J Vasc Surg
2007;46(Suppl S):4S-24S.
42. Labropoulos N, Leon M, Nicolaides AN, Sowade O, Volteas N,
Ortega F, et al. Venous reﬂux in patients with previous deep venous
thrombosis: Correlation with ulceration and other symptoms. J Vasc
Surg 1994;20:20-6.
43. Labropoulos N, Gasparis AP, Tassiopoulos AK. Prospective evaluation of the clinical deterioration in post-thrombotic limbs. J Vasc Surg
2009;50:826-30.
44. Labropoulos N, Gasparis AP, Pefanis D, Leon LR Jr,
Tassiopoulos AK. Secondary chronic venous disease progresses faster
than primary. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:704-10.
45. Eberhardt RT, Raffetto JD. Chronic venous insufﬁciency. Circulation
2005;111:2398-409.
46. Raffetto JD, Khalil RA. Mechanisms of varicose vein formation: Valve
dysfunction and wall dilation. Phlebology 2008;23:85-98.
47. Deroo S, Deatrick KB, Henke PK. The vessel wall: A forgotten player
in post thrombotic syndrome. Thromb Haemost 2010;104:681-92.
48. Raffetto JD. Inﬂammation in chronic venous ulcers. Phlebology
2013;28(Suppl 1):61-7.
49. Meissner MH, Manzo RA, Bergelin RO, Markel A, Strandness DE Jr.
Deep venous insufﬁciency: The relationship between lysis and subsequent reﬂux. J Vasc Surg 1993;18:596-605.
50. Henke PK, Pearce CG, Moaveni DM, Moore AJ, Lynch EM,
Longo C, et al. Targeted deletion of CCR2 impairs deep vein
thombosis resolution in a mouse model. J Immunol 2006;177:
3388-97.
51. Lester PA, Diaz JA, Shuster KA, Henke PK, Wakeﬁeld TW,
Myers DD. Inﬂammation and thrombosis: New insights. Front Biosci
(Schol Ed) 2012;4:620-38.
52. Anwar MA, Georgiadis KA, Shalhoub J, Lim CS, Gohel MS,
Davies AH. A review of familial, genetic, and congenital aspects of
primary varicose vein disease. Circ Cardiovasc Genet 2012;5:460-6.
53. Cornu-Thenard A, Boivin P, Baud JM, De Vincenzi I,
Carpentier PH. Importance of the familial factor in varicose disease.
Clinical study of 134 families. J Dermatol Surg Oncol 1994;20:
318-26.
54. Zamboni P, Gemmati D. Clinical implications of gene polymorphisms
in venous leg ulcer: A model in tissue injury and reparative process.
Thromb Haemost 2007;98:131-7.
55. Zamboni P, Tognazzo S, Izzo M, Pancaldi F, Scapoli GL, Liboni A,
et al. Hemochromatosis C282Y gene mutation increases the risk of
venous leg ulceration. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:309-14.
56. Tognazzo S, Gemmati D, Palazzo A, Catozzi L, Carandina S,
Legnaro A, et al. Prognostic role of factor XIII gene variants in
nonhealing venous leg ulcers. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:815-9.
57. Zamboni P, De Mattei M, Ongaro A, Fogato L, Carandina S, De
Palma M, et al. Factor XIII contrasts the effects of metalloproteinases
in human dermal ﬁbroblast cultured cells. Vasc Endovasc Surg
2004;38:431-8.
58. Gemmati D, Tognazzo S, Catozzi L, Federici F, De Palma M,
Gianesini S, et al. Inﬂuence of gene polymorphisms in ulcer healing
process after superﬁcial venous surgery. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:
554-62.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

59. Schmid-Shonbein GW, Takase S, Bergan JJ. New advances in the
understanding of the pathophysiology of chronic venous insufﬁciency.
Angiology 2001;52(Suppl 1):S27-34.
60. Bergan JJ, Schmid-Shonbein GW, Coleridge Smith PD,
Nicolaides AN, Boisseau MR, Eklof B. Chronic venous disease.
N Engl J Med 2006;355:488-98.
61. Chen YS, Lu MJ, Huang HS, Ma MC. Mechanosensitive transient
receptor potential vanilloid type 1 channels contribute to vascular
remodeling of rat ﬁstula veins. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:1310-20.
62. Ono T, Bergan JJ, Schmid-Schönbein GW, Takase S. Monocyte
inﬁltration into venous valves. J Vasc Surg 1998;27:158-66.
63. Takase S, Pascarella L, Lerond L, Bergan JJ, Schmid-Schönbein GW.
Venous hypertension, inﬂammation and valve remodeling. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2004;28:484-93.
64. Mannello F, Raffetto JD. Matrix metalloproteinase activity and glycosaminoglycans in chronic venous disease: The linkage among cell
biology, pathology and translational research. Am J Transl Res
2011;3:149-58.
65. Mannello F, Medda V, Ligi D, Raffetto JD. Glycosaminoglycan
sulodexide inhibition of MMP-9 gelatinase secretion and activity:
Possible pharmacological role against collagen degradation in vascular
chronic diseases. Curr Vasc Pharmacol 2013;11:354-65.
66. Raffetto JD, Qiao X, Koledova VV, Khalil RA. Prolonged increases in
vein wall tension increase matrix metalloproteinases and decrease
constriction in rat vena cava: Potential implications in varicose veins.
J Vasc Surg 2008;48:447-56.
67. Raffetto JD, Ross RL, Khalil RA. Matrix metalloproteinase 2e
induced venous dilation via hyperpolarization and activation of Kþ
channels: Relevance to varicose vein formation. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:
373-80.
68. Raffetto JD, Barros YV, Wells AK, Khalil RA. MMP-2 induced vein
relaxation via inhibition of [Ca2þ]e-dependent mechanisms of venous
smooth muscle contraction. Role of RGD peptides. J Surg Res
2010;159:755-64.
69. Lim CS, Qiao X, Reslan OM, Xia Y, Raffetto JD, Paleolog E, et al.
Prolonged mechanical stretch is associated with upregulation of
hypoxia-inducible factors and reduced contraction in rat inferior vena
cava. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:764-73.
70. Lim CS, Kiriakidis S, Paleolog EM, Davies AH. Increased activation
of the hypoxia-inducible factor pathway in varicose veins. J Vasc Surg
2012;55:1427-39.
71. Trengove NJ, Bielefeldt-Ohmann H, Stacey MC. Mitogenic activity
and cytokine levels in non-healing and healing chronic leg ulcers.
Wound Repair Regen 2000;8:13-25.
72. Tian YW, Stacey MC. Cytokines and growth factors in keratinocytes
and sweat glands in chronic venous leg ulcers. An immunohistochemical study. Wound Repair Regen 2003;11:316-25.
73. Gohel MS, Windhaber RA, Tarlton JF, Whyman MR, Poskitt KR.
The relationship between cytokine concentrations and wound healing
in chronic venous ulceration. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:1272-7.
74. Wysocki AB, Staiano-Coico L, Grinnell F. Wound ﬂuid from chronic
leg ulcers contains elevated levels of metalloproteinases MMP-2 and
MMP-9. J Invest Dermatol 1993;101:64-8.
75. Weckroth M, Vaheri A, Lauharanta J, Sorsa T, Konttinen YT. Matrix
metalloproteinases, gelatinase and collagenase in chronic leg ulcers.
J Invest Dermatol 1996;106:1119-24.
76. Herouy Y, May AE, Pornschlegel G, Stetter C, Grenz H,
Preissner KT, et al. Lipodermatosclerosis is characterized by elevated
expression and activation of matrix metalloproteinases. Implications
for venous ulcer formation. J Invest Dermatol 1998;111:822-7.
77. Herouy Y, Trefzer D, Hellstern MO, Stark GB, Vanscheidt W,
Schöpf E, et al. Plasminogen activation in venous leg ulcers. Br J
Dermatol 2000;143:930-6.
78. Norgauer J, Hildenbrand T, Idzko M, Panther E, Bandemir E,
Hartmann M, et al. Elevated expression of extracellular matrix
metalloproteinase inducer (CD147) and membrane-type matrix
metalloproteinases in venous leg ulcers. Br J Dermatol 2002;147:
1180-6.
79. Mwaura B, Mahendran B, Hynes N, Defreitas D, Avalos G,
Adegbola T, et al. The impact of differential expression of extracellular

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

matrix metalloproteinase inducer, matrix metalloproteinase-2, tissue
inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and PDGF-AA on the chronicity of venous leg ulcers. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2006;31:
306-10.
80. Meyer FJ, Burnand KG, Abisi S, Tekoppele JM, van Els B, Smith A.
Effect of collagen turnover and matrix metalloproteinase activity on
healing of venous leg ulcers. Br J Surg 2008;95:319-25.
81. Raffetto JD, Vasquez R, Goodwin DG, Menzoian JO. Mitogenactivated protein kinase pathway regulates cell proliferation in venous
ulcer ﬁbroblasts. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2006;40:59-66.
82. Raffetto JD, Gram CH, Overman KC, Menzoian JO. Mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 pathway in venous ulcer ﬁbroblasts. Vasc
Endovascular Surg 2008;42:367-74.
83. Beidler SK, Douillet CD, Berndt DF, Keagy BA, Rich PB,
Marston WA. Inﬂammatory cytokine levels in chronic venous insufﬁciency ulcer tissue before and after compression therapy. J Vasc Surg
2009;49:1013-20.
84. Pappas PJ, DeFouw DO, Venezio LM, Gorti R, Padberg FT Jr,
Silva MB Jr, et al. Morphometric assessment of the dermal microcirculation in patients with chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg
1997;26:784-95.
85. Sansilvestri-Morel P, Rupin A, Badier-Commander C, Kern P,
Fabiani JN, Verbeuren TJ, et al. Imbalance in the synthesis of collagen
type I and collagen type III in smooth muscle cells derived from
human varicose veins. J Vasc Res 2001;38:560-8.
86. Sansilvestri-Morel P, Rupin A, Jaisson S, Fabiani JN, Verbeuren TJ,
Vanhoutte PM. Synthesis of collagen is dysregulated in cultured ﬁbroblasts derived from skin of subjects with varicose veins as it is in
venous smooth muscle cells. Circulation 2002;106:479-83.
87. Sansilvestri-Morel P, Rupin A, Jullien ND, Lembrez N, MestriesDubois P, Fabiani JN, et al. Decreased production of collagen type III
in cultured smooth muscle cells from varicose vein patients is due to a
degradation by MMPs: Possible implication of MMP-3. J Vasc Res
2005;42:388-98.
88. Vincent JR, Jones GT, Hill GB, van Rij AM. Failure of microvenous
valves in small superﬁcial veins is a key to the skin changes of venous
insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 2011;54(Suppl):62S-9S.
89. Anwar MA, Shalhoub J, Vorkas PA, Lim CS, Want EJ, Nicholson JK,
et al. In-vitro identiﬁcation of distinctive metabolic signatures of intact
varicose vein tissue via magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2012;44:442-50.
90. Lim CS, Davies AH. Pathogenesis of primary varicose veins. Br J Surg
2009;96:1231-42.
91. Lim CS, Gohel MS, Shepherd AC, Paleolog E, Davies AH. Venous
hypoxia: A poorly studied etiological factor of varicose veins. J Vasc
Res 2011;48:185-94.
92. Bradbury A, Ruckley CV. Clinical presentation and assessment of
patients with venous disease. In: Gloviczki P, editor. Handbook of
venous disorders: Guidelines of the American Venous Forum. 3rd ed.
London: Hodder Arnold; 2009. p. 331-41.
93. Bradbury AW, Evans CJ, Allan PL, Lee A, Vaughan Ruckley C,
Fowkes FGR. What are the symptoms of varicose veins? Edinburgh
vein study cross sectional population survey. BMJ 1999;318:353-6.
94. Abbade LP, Lastória S. Rollo Hde A. Venous ulcer: Clinical characteristics and risk factors. Int J Dermatol 2011;50:405-11.
95. Langer RD, Ho E, Denenberg JO, Fronek A, Allison M, Criqui MH,
et al. Relationships between symptoms and venous disease: The San
Diego population study. Arch Intern Med 2005;165:1420-4.
96. Jiang P, van Rij AM, Christie R, Hill G, Solomon C, Thomson I.
Recurrent varicose veins: Patterns of reﬂux and clinical severity. Cardiovasc Surg 1999;7:332-9.
97. Nelzén O, Bergqvist D, Lindhagen A. Venous and non-venous leg
ulcers: Clinical history and appearance in a population study. Br J Surg
1994;81:182-7.
98. Korber A, Klode J, Al-Benna S, Wax C, Schadendorf D,
Steinstraesser L, et al. Etiology of chronic leg ulcers in 31,619 patients
in Germany analyzed by an expert survey. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges
2011;9:116-21.
99. Pannier F, Rabe E. Differential diagnosis of leg ulcers. Phlebology
2013;28(Suppl 1):55-60.

O’Donnell et al 49S

100. Labropoulos N, Manalo D, Patel NP, Tiongson J, Pryor L,
Giannoukas AD, et al. Uncommon leg ulcers in the lower extremity.
J Vasc Surg 2007;45:568-73.
101. Dissemond J, Korber A, Grabbe S. Differential diagnosis of leg ulcers.
J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2006;4:627-34.
102. Stacey MC, Burnand KG, Layer GT, Pattison M, Browse NL. Measurement of the healing of venous ulcers. Aust N Z J Surg 1991;61:
844-8.
103. Mayrovitz HN, Soontupe LB. Wound areas by computerized
planimetry of digital images: Accuracy and reliability. Adv Skin
Wound Care 2009;22:222-9.
104. Kecelj Leskovec N, Perme MP, Jezersek M, Mozina J, Pavlovic MD,
et al. Initial healing rates as predictive factors of venous ulcer healing:
The use of a laser-based three-dimensional ulcer measurement.
Wound Repair Regen 2008;16:507-12.
105. Kantor J, Margolis DJ. A multicentre study of percentage change in
venous leg ulcer area as a prognostic index of healing at 24 weeks. Br J
Dermatol 2000;142:960-4.
106. Jessup RL. What is the best method for assessing the rate of wound
healing? A comparison of 3 mathematical formulas. Adv Skin Wound
Care 2006;19:138-47.
107. Gorin DR, Cordts PR, LaMorte WW, Manzoian JO. The inﬂuence of
wound geometry on the measurement of wound healing rates in
clinical trials. J Vasc Surg 1996;23:524-8.
108. Lazarus GS, Cooper DM, Knighton DR, Margolis DJ, Pecoraro RE,
Rodeheaver G, et al. Deﬁnitions and guidelines for assessment
of wounds and evaluation of healing. Arch Dermatol 1994;130:
489-93.
109. Cardinal M, Eisenbud DE, Phillips T, Harding K. Early healing rates
and wound area measurements are reliable predictors of later complete wound closure. Wound Repair Regen 2008;16:19-22.
110. Hill DP, Poore S, Wilson J, Robson MC, Cherry GW. Initial healing
rates of venous ulcers: Are they useful as predictors of healing? Am J
Surg 2004;188:22-5.
111. Keast DH, Bowering K, Evans AW, Mackean GL, Burrows C,
D’Souza L. MEASURE: A proposed assessment framework for
developing best practice recommendations for wound assessment.
Wound Rep Regen 2004;12:S1-17.
112. Ratliff CR, Rodeheaver GT. Use of the PUSH tool to measure venous
ulcer healing. Ostomy Wound Manage 2005;51:58-60, 62-3.
113. Steed DL, Hill DP, Woodske ME, Payne WG, Robson MC. Woundhealing trajectories as outcome measures of venous stasis ulcer treatment. Int Wound J 2006;3:40-7.
114. Hansson C, Hoborn J, Moller A, Swanbeck G. The microbial ﬂora in
venous leg ulcers without clinical signs of infection. Repeated culture
using a validated standardised microbiological technique. Acta Derm
Venereol 1995;75:24-30.
115. Dowd SE, Sun Y, Secor PR, Rhoads DD, Wolcott BM, James GA,
et al. Survey of bacterial diversity in chronic wounds using pyrosequencing, DGGE, and full ribosome shotgun sequencing. BMC
Micribiol 2008;8:43.
116. Hill KE, Davies CE, Wilson MJ, Stephens P, Harding KG,
Thomas DW. Molecular analysis of the microﬂora in chronic venous
leg ulceration. J Med Microbiol 2003;52:365-9.
117. Gjodsbol K, Christensen JJ, Karlsmark T, Jorgensen B, Klein BM,
Krogfelt KA. Multiple bacterial species reside in chronic wounds: A
longitudinal study. Int Wound J 2006;3:225-31.
118. Moore K, Hall V, Paull A, Morris T, Brown S, McCulloch D, et al.
Surface bacteriology of venous leg ulcers and healing outcome. J Clin
Pathol 2010;63:830-4.
119. Rhoads DD, Wolcott RD, Sun Y, Dowd SE. Comparison of culture
and molecular identiﬁcation of bacteria in chronic wounds. Int J Mol
Sci 2012;13:2535-50.
120. Wolcott RD, Cox SB, Dowd SE. Healing and healing rates of chronic
wounds in the age of molecular pathogen diagnostics. J Wound Care
2010;19:272-8.
121. Gjodsbol K, Skindersoe ME, Christensen JJ, Karlsmark T,
Jørgensen B, Jensen AM, et al. No need for biopsies: Comparison of
three sample techniques for wound microbiota determination. Int
Wound J 2012;9:295-302.

50S O’Donnell et al

122. Davies CE, Hill KE, Newcombe RG, Stephens P, Wilson MJ,
Harding KG, et al. A prospective study of the microbiology of chronic
venous leg ulcers to reevaluate predictive value of tissue biopsies and
swabs. Wound Repair Regen 2007;15:17-22.
123. Cooper RA, Ameen H, Price P, McCulloch DA, Harding KG.
A clinical investigation into the microbiological status of ‘locally
infected’ leg ulcers. Int Wound J 2009;6:453-62.
124. Angel DE, Lloyd P, Carville K, Santamaria N. The clinical efﬁcacy of
two semi-quantitative wound-swabbing techniques in identifying the
causative organisms in infected cutaneous wounds. Int Wound J
2011;8:176-85.
125. Levine NS, Lindberg RB, Mason AD Jr, Pruitt BA Jr. The quantitative swab culture and smear: A quick method for determining the
number of viable aerobic bacteria in open wounds. J Trauma
1976;16:89-94.
126. Yang D, Morrison BD, Vandongen YK, Singh A, Stacey MC. Malignancy in chronic leg ulcers. Med J Aust 1996;164:718-20.
127. Senet P, Combemale P, Debure C, Baudot N, Machet L, Aout M,
et al. Angio-Dermatology Group of the French Society of Dermatology. Malignancy and chronic leg ulcers: The value of systematic
wound biopsies: A prospective, multicenter, cross-sectional study.
Arch Dermatol 2012;148:704-8.
128. Stanford R, Lowell D, Raju R, Arya A. Marjolin’s ulcer of the leg
secondary to nonhealing chronic venous stasis ulcer. J Foot Ankle
Surg 2012;51:475-8.
129. Beidler SK, Douillet CD, Berndt DF, Keagy BA, Rich PB,
Marston WA. Multiplexed analysis of matrix metalloproteinases in leg
ulcer tissue of patients with chronic venous insufﬁciency before and
after compression therapy. Wound Repair Regen 2008;16:642-8.
130. Panuncialman J, Hammerman S, Carson P, Falanga V. Wound edge
biopsy sites in chronic wounds heal rapidly and do not result in
delayed overall healing of the wounds. Wound Repair Regen
2010;18:21-5.
131. Mackenzie RK, Ludlam CA, Ruckley CV, Allan PL, Burns P,
Bradbury AW. The prevalence of thrombophilia in patients with
chronic venous leg ulceration. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:718-22.
132. Darvall KA, Sam RC, Adam DJ, Silverman SH, Fegan CD,
Bradbury AW. Higher prevalence of thrombophilia in patients with
varicose veins and venous ulcers than controls. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:
1235-41.
133. Brandt HR, de Lorenzo Messina MC, Hirayama JT, Belda W Jr,
Benabou JE, Criado PR. Prevalence of thrombophilia associated with
leg ulcers. Br J Dermatol 2009;160:202-3.
134. Calistru AM, Baudrier T, Gonvalves L, Azevedo F. Thrombophilia in
venous leg ulcers: A comparative study in early and later onset. Indian
J Dermatol Venereol Leprol 2012;78:406.
135. Wiszniewski A, Bykowska K, Bilski R, Jaskowiak W, Proniewski J.
Prevalence rate for inherited thrombophilia in patients with chronic and
recurrent venous leg ulceration. Wound Repair Regen 2011;19:552-8.
136. Bradbury AW, MacKenzie RK, Burns P, Fegan C. Thrombophilia and
chronic venous ulceration. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;24:97-104.
137. Spentzouris G, Labropoulos N. The evaluation of lower-extremity
ulcers. Semin Intervent Radiol 2009;26:286-95.
138. Norgren L, Hiatt WR, Dormandy JA, Nehler MR, Harris KA,
Fowkes FG; TASC II Working Group. Inter-Society Consensus for
the Management of Peripheral Arterial Disease (TASC II). J Vasc
Surg 2007;45(Suppl S):S5-67.
139. Andersson E, Hansson C, Swanbeck G. Leg and foot ulcer prevalence
and investigation of the peripheral arterial and venous circulation in a
randomised elderly population. An epidemiological survey and clinical
investigation. Acta Derm Venereol 1993;73:57-61.
140. Callam MJ, Harper DR, Dale JJ, Ruckley CV. Chronic ulcer of the
leg: Clinical history. Br Med J Clin Res Ed 1987;294:1389-91.
141. Georgopoulos S, Kouvelos GN, Koutsoumpelis A, Bakoyiannis C,
Lymperi M, Klonaris C, et al. The effect of revascularization procedures on healing of mixed arterial and venous leg ulcers. Int Angiol
2013;32:368-74.
142. Iabichella ML, Melillo E, Mosti G. A review of microvascular measurements in wound healing. Int J Low Extrem Wounds 2006;5:
181-99.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

143. Gschwandtner ME, Ehringer H. Microcirculation in chronic venous
insufﬁciency. Vasc Med 2001;6:169-79.
144. Ambrozy E, Waczulikova I, Willfort-Ehringer A, Ehringer H,
Koppensteiner R, Gschwandtner ME. Microcirculation in mixed
arterial/venous ulcers and the surrounding skin: Clinical study using a
laser Doppler perfusion imager and capillary microscopy. Wound
Repair Regen 2009;17:19-24.
145. McMullin GM, Smith C. An evaluation of Doppler ultrasound and
photoplethysmography in the investigation of venous insufﬁciency.
Aust N Z J Surg 1992;62:270-5.
146. Rautio T, Perala J, Biancari F, Wiik H, Ohtonen P, Haukipuro K,
et al. Accuracy of hand-held Doppler in planning the operation for
primary varicose veins. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;24:450-5.
147. Haenen JH, van Langen H, Janssen MC, Wollersheim H, van’t
hof MA, van Asten WN, et al. Venous duplex scanning of the leg:
Range, variability and reproducibility. Clin Sci 1999;96:271-7.
148. Abai B, Labropoulos N. Duplex ultrasound scanning for chronic
venous obstruction and valvular incompetence. In: Gloviczki P, editor. Handbook of venous disorders: Guidelines of the American
Venous Forum. 3rd ed. London: Hodder Arnold; 2009. p. 142-55.
149. Sarin S, Sommerville K, Farrah J, Scurr JH, Coleridge Smith PD.
Duplex ultrasonography for assessment of venous valvular function of
the lower limb. Br J Surg 1994;81:1591-5.
150. Intersocietal Commission for the Accreditation of Vascular Laboratories. The complete ICAVL standards for accreditation in noninvasive vascular testing. Available at: http://www.icavl.org/icavl/
standards/2010_ICAVL_Standards.pdf2010.
151. Masuda EM, Kistner RL, Eklof B. Prospective study of duplex scanning for venous reﬂux: Comparison of Valsalva and pneumatic cuff
techniques in the reverse Trendelenburg and standing positions.
J Vasc Surg 1994;20:711-20.
152. Markel A, Meissner MH, Manzo RA, Bergelin RO, Strandness DE.
A comparison of the cuff deﬂation method with Valsalva’s maneuver
and limb compression in detecting venous valvular reﬂux. Arch Surg
1994;129:701-5.
153. Labropoulos N, Tiongson J, Pryor L, Tassiopoulos AK, Kang SS,
Ashraf Mansour M, et al. Deﬁnition of venous reﬂux in lowerextremity veins. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:793-8.
154. Lurie F, Comerota A, Eklof B, Kistner RL, Labropoulos N, Lohr J,
et al. Multicenter assessment of venous reﬂux by duplex ultrasound.
J Vasc Surg 2012;55:437-45.
155. Gloviczki P, Baker WH. New insights into perforator vein incompetence. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1999;18:228-34.
156. Sandri JL, Barros FS, Pontes S, Jacques C, Salles-Cunha SX. Diameter
reﬂux relationship in perforating veins of patients with varicose veins.
J Vasc Surg 1999;30:867-74.
157. Labropoulos N, Patel PJ, Tiongson JE, Pryor L, Leon LR Jr,
Tassiopoulos AK. Patterns of venous reﬂux and obstruction in patients
with skin damage due to chronic venous disease. Vasc Endovasc Surg
2007;41:33-40.
158. Yamaki T, Nozaki M, Sasaki K. Color duplex ultrasound in assessment
of primary venous leg ulceration. Dermatol Surg 1998;24:1124-8.
159. Labropoulos N, Leon M, Geroulakos G, Volteas N, Chan P,
Nicolaides AN. Venous hemodynamic abnormalities in patients with
leg ulceration. Am J Surg 1995;169:572-4.
160. Labropoulos N, Giannoukas AD, Nicolaides AN, Ramaswami G,
Leon M, Burke P. New insights into the pathophysiologic condition
of venous ulceration with color-ﬂow duplex imaging: Implications for
treatment. J Vasc Surg 1995;22:45-50.
161. Hanrahan LM, Araki CT, Rodriguez AA, Kechejian GJ, LaMorte WW,
Menzoian JO, et al. Distribution of valvular incompetence in patients
with venous stasis ulceration. J Vasc Surg 1991;13:805-11.
162. Obermayer A, Garzon K. Identifying the source of superﬁcial reﬂux in
venous leg ulcers using duplex ultrasound. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:
1255-61.
163. Labropoulos N, Giannoukas AD, Nicolaides AN, Veller M, Leon M,
Volteas N, et al. The role of venous reﬂux and calf muscle
pump function in nonthrombotic chronic venous insufﬁciency. Correlation with severity of signs and symptoms. Arch Surg 1996;131:
403-6.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

164. Struckmann JR. Assessment of the venous muscle pump function by
ambulatory strain gauge plethysmography. Methodological and clinical aspects. Dan Med Bull 1993;40:460-77.
165. Criado E, Farber MA, Marston WA, Daniel PF, Burnham CB,
Keagy BA, et al. The role of air plethysmography in the diagnosis of
chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 1998;27:660-70.
166. Green S, Thorp R, Reeder EJ. Venous occlusion plethysmography
versus Doppler ultrasound in the assessment of leg blood ﬂow during
calf exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol 2011;111:1889-900.
167. Lurie F, Rooke TW. Evaluation of venous function by indirect
noninvasive testing (plethysmography). In: Gloviczki P, editor.
Handbook of venous disorders: Guidelines of the American Venous
Forum. 3rd ed. London: Hodder Arnold; 2009. p. 156-9.
168. Weingarten MS, Czeredarczuk M, Scovell S, Branas CC,
Mignogna GM, Wolferth CC Jr. A correlation of air plethysmography
and color ﬂow-assisted duplex scanning in the quantiﬁcation of
chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 1996;24:750-4.
169. Rhodes JM, Gloviczki P, Canton L, Heaser TV, Rooke TW. Endoscopic perforator vein division with ablation of superﬁcial reﬂux improves venous hemodynamics. J Vasc Surg 1998;28:839-47.
170. Park UJ, Yun WS, Lee KB, Rho YN, Kim YW, Joh JH, et al. Analysis
of the postoperative hemodynamic changes in varicose vein surgery
using air plethysmography. J Vasc Surg 2010;51:634-8.
171. Padberg FT, Pappas PJ, Araki CT, Back TL, Hobson RW 2nd. Hemodynamic and clinical improvement after superﬁcial ablation in
primary combined venous insufﬁciency with ulceration. J Vasc Surg
1996;24:711-8.
172. Owens LV, Farber MA, Young ML, Carlin RE, Criado-Pallares E,
Passman MA, et al. The value of air plethysmography in predicting
clinical outcome after surgical treatment of chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 2000;32:961-8.
173. Raju S, Neglen P. High prevalence of nonthrombotic iliac vein lesions
in chronic venous disease: A permissive role in pathogenicity. J Vasc
Surg 2006;44:136-44.
174. Lin EP, Bhatt S, Rubens D, Dogra VS. The importance of monophasic Doppler waveforms in the common femoral vein: A retrospective study. J Ultrasound Med 2007;26:885-91.
175. Labropoulos N, Borge M, Pieerce K, Pappas PJ. Criteria for deﬁning
signiﬁcant central venous stenosis with duplex ultrasound. J Vasc Surg
2007;46:101-7.
176. Kalodiki E, Calahoras LS, Delis KT, Zouzias CP, Nicolaides AN. Air
plethysmography: The answer in detecting past deep venous thrombosis. J Vasc Surg 2001;22:715-20.
177. Chung JW, Yoon CJ, Jung HC, Kim HC, Lee W, Kim YI, et al. Acute
iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis: Evaluation of underlying anatomic
abnormality by spiral CT venography. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2004;15:
249-56.
178. Oguzkurt L, Ozkan U, Ulusan S, Koc Z, Tercan F. Compression of the
left common iliac vein in asymptomatic subjects and patients with left
iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2008;19:366-70.
179. Wolpert LM, Rahmani O, Stein B, Gallagher JJ, Drezner AD. Magnetic resonance venography in the diagnosis and management of
May-Thurner syndrome. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2002;36:51-7.
180. Marston W, Fish D, Unger J, Keagy B. Incidence of and risk factors
for iliocaval venous obstruction in patients with active or healed
venous leg ulcers. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1303-8.
181. Neglen P, Raju S. Intravascular ultrasound scan evaluation of the
obstructed vein. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:694-700.
182. Forauer AR, Gemmete JJ, Dasika NL, Cho KJ, Williams DM.
Intravascular ultrasound in the diagnosis and treatment of iliac vein
compression (May-Thurner) syndrome. J Vasc Interv Radiol
2002;13:523-7.
183. Raju S, Hollis K, Neglen P. Obstructive lesions of the inferior vena
cava: Clinical features and endovenous treatment. J Vasc Surg
2006;44:820-7.
184. Porter JM, Moneta GL. International Consensus Committee on
Chronic Venous Disease. Reporting standards in venous disease: An
update. J Vasc Surg 1995;21:635-45.
185. Nicolaides A, Bergan JJ, Eklof B, Kistner RL, Moneta G. Ad Hoc
Committee of the American Venous Forum. Classiﬁcation and

O’Donnell et al 51S

grading of chronic venous disease in the lower limbs: A consensus
statement. In: Gloviczki P, Yao JST, editors. Handbook of venous
disorders: Guidelines of the American Venous Forum. London:
Chapman & Hall Medical; 1996. p. 652-60.
186. Eklöf B, Rutherford RB, Bergan JJ, Carpentier PH, Gloviczki P,
Kistner RL, et al. Revision of the CEAP classiﬁcation for chronic
venous disorders: Consensus statement. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:
1248-52.
187. Meissner MH, Natiello C, Nicholls SC. Performance characteristics of
the venous clinical severity score. J Vasc Surg 2002;36:889-95.
188. Ricci MA, Emmerich J, Callas PW, Rosendaal FR, Stanley AC,
Naud S, et al. Evaluating chronic venous disease with a new venous
severity scoring system. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:909-15.
189. Gillet JL, Perrin MR, Allaert FA. Clinical presentation and venous
severity scoring of patients with extended deep axial venous reﬂux.
J Vasc Surg 2006;44:588-94.
190. Kakkos SK, Rivera MA, Matsagas MI, Lazarides MK, Robless P,
Belcaro G, et al. Validation of the new venous severity scoring system
in varicose vein surgery. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:224-8.
191. Passman MA, McLafferty RB, Lentz MF, Nagre SB, Iafrati MD,
Bohannon WT, et al. Validation of Venous Clinical Severity Score
(VCSS) with other venous severity assessment tools from the American Venous Forum, National Venous Screening Program. J Vasc
Surg 2011;54(Suppl):2S-9S.
192. Marston WA, Vasquez MA, Lurie F, Wakeﬁeld TW, Rabe E,
Shortell CK, et al. Multicenter assessment of the repeatability and
reproducibility of the revised Venous Clinical Severity Score (rVCSS).
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2013;1:219-24.
193. Vasquez MA, Wang J, Mahathanaruk M, Buczkowski G, Sprehe E,
Dosluoglu HH, et al. The utility of the Venous Clinical Severity Score
in 682 limbs treated by radiofrequency saphenous vein ablation.
J Vasc Surg 2007;45:1008-14.
194. Jayaraj A, Meissner MH. A comparison of Villalta-Prandoni scale and
venous clinical severity score in the assessment of post thrombotic
syndrome. Ann Vasc Surg 2014;28:313-7.
195. Villalta S, Bagatella P, Piccioli A, Lensing AW, Prins MH, Prandoni P.
Assessment of validity and reproducibility of a clinical scale for the
postthrombotic syndrome. [abstract]. Haemostasis 1994;24:158a.
196. Ginsberg JS, Turkstra F, Buller HR, MacKinnon B, Magier D,
Hirsh J. Postthrombotic syndrome after hip or knee arthroplasty: A
cross-sectional study. Arch Intern Med 2000;160:669-72.
197. Brandjes DP, Buller HR, Heijboer H, Huisman MV, de Rijk M,
Jagt H, et al. Randomised trial of effect of compression stockings in
patients with symptomatic proximal-vein thrombosis. Lancet
1997;349:759-62.
198. Widmer L, Stathelin H, Nissen C. Venen-, Arterien-, Krankheiten,
koronare Herzkrankheit bei Berufstätigen. Bern: Verlag Hans Huber;
1981.
199. Galanaud JP, Holcroft CA, Rodger MA, Kovacs MJ, Betancourt MT,
Wells PS, et al. Comparison of the Villalta post-thrombotic syndrome
score in the ipsilateral vs. contralateral leg after a ﬁrst unprovoked
deep vein thrombosis. J Thromb Haemost 2012;10:1036-42.
200. Kahn SR, Hirsch A, Shrier I. Effect of postthrombotic syndrome on
health-related quality of life after deep venous thrombosis. Arch
Intern Med 2002;162:1144-8.
201. Rodger MA, Kahn SR, Le Gal G, Solymoss S, Chagnon I,
Anderson DR, et al. Inter-observer reliability of measures to assess the
post-thrombotic syndrome. Thromb Haemost 2008;100:164-6.
202. Kolbach DN, Neumann HA, Prins MH. Deﬁnition of the postthrombotic syndrome, differences between existing classiﬁcations. Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;30:404-14.
203. Kahn SR, Desmarais S, Ducruet T, Arsenault L, Ginsberg JS.
Comparison of the Villalta and Ginsberg clinical scales to diagnose
the post-thrombotic syndrome: Correlation with patient-reported
disease burden and venous valvular reﬂux. J Thromb Haemost
2006;4:907-8.
204. Lamping DL, Schroter S, Kurz X, Kahn SR, Abenhaim L. Evaluating
outcomes in chronic venous disorders of the leg: Development of a
scientiﬁcally rigorous patient-reported measure of symptoms and
quality of life. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:410-9.

52S O’Donnell et al

205. Soosainathan A, Moore HM, Gohel MS, Davies AH. Scoring systems
for the post-thrombotic syndrome. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:254-61.
206. Kahn SR, Partsch H, Vedantham S, Prandoni P, Kearon C. Subcommittee on Control of Anticoagulation of the Scientiﬁc and Standardization Committee of the International Society on Thrombosis
and Haemostasis. Deﬁnition of post-thrombotic syndrome of the leg
for use in clinical investigations: A recommendation for standardization. J Thromb Haemost 2009;7:879-83.
207. Baker DM, Turnbull NB, Pearson JC, Makin GS. How successful is
varicose vein surgery? A patient outcome study following varicose vein
surgery using the SF-36 Health Assessment Questionnaire. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 1995;9:299-304.
208. Garratt AM, Ruta DA, Abdalla MI, Russell IT. SF 36 health survey
questionnaire: II. Responsiveness to changes in health status in four
common clinical conditions. Qual Health Care 1994;3:186-92.
209. Davies AH, Rudarakanchana N. Qualify of life and outcome assessment in patients with varicose veins. In: Davies AH, Lees TA,
Lane IF, editors. Venous disease simpliﬁed. Shropshire, UK: TFM
Publishing Ltd; 2006.
210. Vasquez MA, Munschauer CE. Venous Clinical Severity Score and
quality-of-life assessment tools: Application to vein practice. Phlebology 2008;23:259-75.
211. Franks PJ, Moffatt CJ. Health related quality of life in patients with
venous ulceration: Use of the Nottingham health proﬁle. Qual Life
Res 2001;10:693-700.
212. Wiebe S, Guyatt G, Weaver B, Matijevic S, Sidwell C. Comparative
responsiveness of generic and speciﬁc quality-of-life instruments.
J Clin Epidemiol 2003;56:52-60.
213. Launois R, Mansilha A, Jantet G. International psychometric validation of the Chronic Venous Disease quality of life Questionnaire
(CIVIQ-20). Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2010;40:783-9.
214. Kahn SR, M’Lan CE, Lamping DL, Kurz X, Berard A, Abenhaim LA,
et al. Relationship between clinical classiﬁcation of chronic venous
disease and patient-reported quality of life: Results from an international cohort study. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:823-8.
215. Rutherford RB, Moneta GL, Padberg FT Jr, Meissner MH. Outcome
assessment in chronic venous disease. In: Gloviczki P, editor. Handbook of venous disorders: Guidelines of the American Venous Forum.
3rd ed. London: Hodder Arnold; 2009. p. 684-93.
216. Kundu S, Lurie F, Millward SF, Padberg F Jr, Vedantham S, Elias S,
et al. Recommended reporting standards for endovenous ablation for
the treatment of venous insufﬁciency: Joint statement of the American
Venous Forum and the Society of Interventional Radiology. J Vasc
Surg 2007;46:582-9.
217. United States Department of Health and Human Services, Food
and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Chronic cutaneous ulcer and burn woundsddeveloping products for treatment. June 2006. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/downloads/
Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/
UCM071324.pdf
218. Romanelli M, Dini V, Barbanera S, Bertone MS. Evaluation of the efﬁcacy and tolerability of a solution containing propyl betaine and polihexanide for wound irrigation. Skin Pharmacol Physiol 2010;23:41-4.
219. Rodeheaver GT, Kurtz L, Kircher BJ, Edlich RF. Pluronic F-68: A
promising new skin wound cleanser. Ann Emerg Med 1980;9:572-6.
220. Rodeheaver GT. Wound cleansing, wound irrigation, wound disinfection. In: Krasner D, Kane D, editors. Chronic wound care: A
clinical source book for healthcare professionals. Wayne, Pa: Health
Management Publications; 1997. p. 97-108.
221. Williams D, Enoch S, Miller D, Harris K, Price P, Harding KG. Effect
of sharp debridement using curette on recalcitrant nonhealing venous
leg ulcers: A concurrently controlled, prospective cohort study.
Wound Repair Regen 2005;13:131-7.
222. Cardinal M, Armstrong DG, Zelen C, Driver V, Attinger C,
Phillips T, et al. Serial surgical debridement: A retrospective study on
clinical outcomes in chronic lower extremity wounds. Wound Repair
Regen 2009;17:306-11.
223. Blumberg SN, Maggi J, Melamed J, Golinko M, Ross F, Chen W.
Histopathologic basis for surgical debridement to promote healing of
venous leg ulcers. J Am Coll Surg 2012;215:751-7.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

224. Sibbald RG, Williamson D, Orsted HL. Preparing the wound bed:
Debridement. bacterial balance, and moisture balance. Ostomy
Wound Manage 2000;46:14-35.
225. Bradley M, Cullum N, Sheldon T. The debridement of chronic wounds:
A systematic review. Health Technol Assess 1999;3(Pt 1):1-78.
226. Briggs M, Nelson EA, Martyn-St James M. Topical agents or dressings for pain in venous leg ulcers. Cochrane Database Syst Rev
2012;11:CD001177.
227. Lok C, Paul C, Amblard P, Bessis D, Debure C, Faivre B, et al. EMLA
cream as a topical anesthetic for the repeated mechanical debridement
of venous leg ulcers: A double-blind, placebo-conrolled study. J Am
Acad Dermatol 1999;40:208-13.
228. Hansson C, Holm J, Lillieborg S, Syren A. Repeated treatment with
lidocaine/prilocaine cream (EMLA) as a topical anesthetic for the
cleansing of venous leg ulcers. A controlled study. Acta Derm
Venereol 1993;73:231-3.
229. Caputo WJ, Beggs DJ, DeFede JL, Simm L, Dharma H.
A prospective randomized controlled clinical trial comparing hydrosurgery debridement with conventional surgical debridement in lower
extremity ulcers. Int Wound J 2008;5:288-94.
230. Mosti G, Labichella ML, Picemi P, Magliaro A, Mattaliano V. The
debridement of hard to heal leg ulcers by means of a new device based
on Fluidjet technology. Int Wound J 2005;2:307-14.
231. Falanga V. Wound bed preparation and the role of enzymes: A case for
multiple actions of the therapeutic agents. Wounds 2002;14:47-57.
232. Rao DB, Sane PG, Georgiev EL. Collagenase in the treatment of
dermal and decubitus ulcers. J Am Geriatr Soc 1975;23:22-30.
233. Mosher BA, Cuddigan J, Thomas DR, Boudreau DM. Outcomes of 4
methods of debridement using a decision analysis methodology. Adv
Wound Care 1999;12:81-8.
234. Dumville JC, Worthy G, Bland JM, Cullum N, Dowson C, Iglesias C,
et al. Larval therapy for leg ulcers (VenUS II): Randomized controlled
trial. BMJ 2009;338:773.
235. Soares MO, Iglesias CP, Bland JM, Cullum N, Dumville JC,
Nelson EA, et al; VenUS II team. Cost-effectiveness analysis of larval
therapy for leg ulcers. BMJ 2009;338:b825.
236. Dall L, Peterson S, Simmons T, Dall A. Rapid resolution of cellulitis in
patients managed with combination antibiotic and anti-inﬂammatory
therapy. Cutis 2005;75:177-80.
237. Khawcharoenporn T, Tice A. Empiric outpatient therapy with
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, cephalexin, or clindamycin for
cellulitis. Am J Med 2010;123:942-50.
238. Madaras-Kelly KJ, Remington RE, Oliphant CM, Sloan KL,
Bearden DT. Efﬁcacy of oral beta-lactam versus non-beta-lactam
treatment of uncomplicated cellulitis. Am J Med 2008;121:419-25.
239. Kilburn SA, Featherstone P, Higgins B, Brindle R. Interventions for
cellulitis and erysipelas. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2010;6:
CD004299.
240. Sibbald RG, Contreras-Ruiz J, Coutts P, Fierheller M, Rothman A,
Woo K. Bacteriology, inﬂammation, and healing: A study of nanocrystalline silver dressings in chronic venous leg ulcers. Adv Skin
Wound Care 2007;20:549-58.
241. Lantis JC 2nd, Gendics C. In vivo effect of sustained-release silver
sulphadiazine foam on bioburden and wound closure in infected
venous leg ulcers. J Wound Care 2011;20:90-6.
242. Schraibman IG. The signiﬁcance of beta-haemolytic streptococci in
chronic leg ulcers. Ann R Coll Surg Engl 1990;72:123-4.
243. Manizgate F, Fuller A, Gendics C, Lantis JC 2nd. A prospective
single-center, nonblinded, comparative, postmarket clinical evaluation
of a bovine-derived collagen with ionic silver dressing versus a
carboxymethylcellulose and ionic silver dressing for the reduction of
bioburden in variable-etiology bilateral lower-extremity wounds. Adv
Skin Wound Care 2012;25:220-5.
244. Vermeulen H, van Hattem JM, Storm-Versloot MN, Ubbink DT,
Westerbos SJ. Topical silver for treating infected wounds. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2007;1:CD005486.
245. Trengove NJ, Stacey MC, MacAuley S, Bennett N, Gibson J,
Burslem F, et al. Analysis of the acute and chronic wound environments: The role of proteases and their inhibitors. Wound Rep Regen
1999;7:442-52.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

246. Yager DR, Zhang LY, Liang HX, Diegelmann RF, Cohen IK. Wound
ﬂuids from human pressure ulcers contain elevated matrix metalloproteinase levels and activity compared to surgical wound ﬂuids.
J Invest Dermatol 1996;107:743-8.
247. Michaels JA, Campbell B, King B, Palfreyman SJ, Shackley P,
Stevenson M. Randomized controlled trial and cost-effectiveness
analysis of silver-donating antimicrobial dressings for venous leg ulcers (VULCAN trial). Br J Surg 2009;96:1147-56.
248. Palfreyman S, Nelson EA, Michaels JA. Dressings for venous leg ulcers: Systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ 2007;335:244.
249. O’Meara S, Al-Kurdi D, Ologun Y, Ovington LG. Antibiotics and
antiseptics for venous leg ulcers. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2010;1:
CD003557.
250. Hess CT. Identifying and managing venous dermatitis. Adv Skin
Wound Care 2005;18:242-3.
251. Kulozik M, Powell SM, Cherry G, Ryan TJ. Contact sensitivity in
community-based leg ulcer patients. Clin Exp Dermatol 1988;13:82-4.
252. Tavadia S, Bianchi J, Dawe RS, McEvoy M, Wiggins E, Hamill E,
et al. Allergic contact dermatitis in venous leg ulcer patients. Contact
Dermatitis 2003;48:261-5.
253. Lal BK, Saito S, Pappas PJ, Padberg FT Jr, Cerveira JJ,
Hobson RW 2nd, et al. Altered proliferative responses of dermal ﬁbroblasts to TGF-beta1 may contribute to chronic venous stasis ulcer.
J Vasc Surg 2003;37:1285-93.
254. Sadler GM, Wallace HJ, Stacey MC. Oral doxycycline for the treatment of chronic leg ulceration. Arch Dermatol Res 2012;304:487-93.
255. Jones JE, Nelson EA. Skin grafting for venous leg ulcers. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2007;2:CD001737.
256. Serra R, Buffone G, de Franciscis A, Mastrangelo D, Vitagliano T,
Greco M, et al. Skin grafting followed by low-molecular-weight
heparin long-term therapy in chronic venous leg ulcers. Ann Vasc
Surg 2012;26:190-7.
257. Warburg FE, Danielsen L, Madsen SM, Raaschou HO, Munkvad S,
Jensen R, et al. Vein surgery with or without skin grafting versus
conservative treatment for leg ulcers. A randomized prospective study.
Acta Derm Venereol 1994;74:307-9.
258. Jankunas V. An analysis of the effectiveness of skin grafting to treat
chronic venous leg ulcers. Wounds 2007;19:128-37.
259. Falanga V, Sabolinski M. A bilayered living skin construct (APLIGRAF) accelerates complete closure of hard-to-heal venous ulcers.
Wound Repair Regen 1999;7:201-7.
260. Falanga V, Margolis D, Alvarez O, Auletta M, Maggiacomo F,
Altman M, et al. Rapid healing of venous ulcers and lack of clinical
rejection with an allogeneic cultured human skin equivalent. Human
Skin Equivalent Investigators Group. Arch Dermatol 1998;134:
293-300.
261. Zaulyanov L, Kirsner RS. A review of a bi-layered living cell treatment
(Apligraf) in the treatment of venous leg ulcers and diabetic foot ulcers. Clin Interv Aging 2007;2:93-8.
262. Hankin CS, Knispel J, Lopes M, Bronstone A, Maus E. Clinical and
cost efﬁcacy of advanced wound care matrices for venous ulcers.
J Manag Care Pharm 2012;18:375-84.
263. Mostow EN, Araway GD, Dalsing M, Hodde JP, King D. Effectiveness of an extracellular matrix graft (OASIS Wound Matrix) in the
treatment of chronic leg ulcers: A randomized clinical trial. J Vasc
Surg 2005;41:837-43.
264. Vuerstaek JD, Vainas T, Wuite J, Nelemans P, Neumann MH,
Veraart JC. State-of-the-art treatment of chronic leg ulcers: A randomized controlled trial comparing vacuum-assisted closure (V.A.C.)
with modern wound dressings. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:1029-37; discussion: 1038.
265. Ubbink DT, Westerbos SJ, Evans D, Land L, Vermeulen H. Topical
negative pressure for treating chronic wounds. Cochrane Database
Syst Rev 2008;3:CD001898.
266. Houghton PE, Kincaid CB, Lovell M, Campbell KE, Keast DH,
Woodbury MG, et al. Effect of electrical stimulation on chronic leg
ulcer size and appearance. Phys Ther 2003;83:17-28.
267. Ennis WJ, Lee C, Plummer M, Meneses P. Current status of the use
of modalities in wound care: Electrical stimulation and ultrasound
therapy. Plast Reconstr Surg 2011;127(Suppl 1):93S-102S.

O’Donnell et al 53S

268. Gardner SE, Frantz RA, Schmidt FL. Effect of electrical stimulation
on chronic wound healing: A meta-analysis. Wound Repair Regen
1999;7:495-503.
269. Driver VR, Fabbi M. Recent advances in the use of ultrasound in
wound care. Adv Wound Care 2010;1:550-5.
270. Chuang LH, Soares MO, Watson JM, Bland JM, Cullum N,
Iglesias C, et al. Economic evaluation of a randomized controlled trial
of ultrasound therapy for hard-to-heal venous leg ulcers. Br J Surg
2011;98:1099-106.
271. Escandon J, Vivas AC, Perez R, Kirsner R, Davis S. A prospective pilot
study of ultrasound therapy effectiveness in refractory venous leg ulcers. Int Wound J 2012;9:570-8.
272. Watson JM, Kang’ombe AR, Soares MO, Chuang LH, Worthy G,
Bland JM, et al. Use of weekly, low dose, high frequency ultrasound
for hard to heal venous leg ulcers: The VenUS III randomised
controlled trial. BMJ 2011;342:d1092.
273. Cullum NA, Al-Kurdi D, Bell-Syer SE. Therapeutic ultrasound for
venous leg ulcers. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2010;6:CD001180.
274. Mosti G, Mattaliano V, Partsch H. Inelastic compression increases
venous ejection fraction more than elastic bandages in patients with
superﬁcial venous reﬂux. Phlebology 2008;23:287-94.
275. Partsch H, Clark M, Mosti G, Steinlechner E, Schuren J, Abel M,
et al. Classiﬁcation of compression bandages: Practical aspects. Dermatol Surg 2008;34:600-9.
276. Partsch B, Partsch H. Calf compression pressure required to achieve
venous closure from supine to standing positions. J Vasc Surg
2005;42:734-8.
277. Partsch H, Clark M, Bassez S, Benigni JP, Becker F, Blazek V, et al.
Measurement of lower leg compression in vivo: Recommendations for
the performance of measurements of interface pressure and stiffness:
Consensus statement. Dermatol Surg 2006;32:224-32.
278. Rubin JR, Alexander J, Plecha EJ, Marman C. Unna’s boot vs polyurethane foam dressings for the treatment of venous ulceration. A
randomized prospective study. Arch Surg 1990;125:489-90.
279. O’Meara S, Cullum N, Nelson EA, Dumville JC. Compression
for venous leg ulcers. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012;11:
CD000265.
280. Eriksson G, Eklund A-E, Linden S, Zetterquist S. Comparison of
different treatments of venous leg ulcers: A controlled study using
stereophotogrammetry. Curr Ther Res 1984;35:678-84.
281. Taradaj J, Franek A, Dolibog P, Cierpka L, Blaszczak E. [The impact
of the sonotherapy and compression therapy on enhancement of
healing venous leg ulcers after surgical treatment]. Pol Merkur
Lekarski 2007;23:426-9.
282. Kikta MJ, Schuler JJ, Meyer JP, Durham JR, Eldrup-Jorgensen J,
Schwarcz TH, et al. A prospective, randomized trial of Unna’s boots
versus hydroactive dressing in the treatment of venous stasis ulcers.
J Vasc Surg 1988;7:478-83.
283. Wong IK, Andriessen A, Charles HE, Thompson D, Lee DT, So WK,
et al. Randomized controlled trial comparing treatment outcome of
two compression bandaging systems and standard care without
compression in patients with venous leg ulcers. J Eur Acad Dermatol
Venereol 2012;26:102-10.
284. Charles H. Compression healing of ulcers. J District Nurs 1991;10:
4-8.
285. Taylor A, Taylor RF, Marcuson RW. Prospective comparison of
healing rates and therapy costs for conventional and four layer high
compression bandaging treatments of venous leg ulcers. Phlebology
1998;13:20-4.
286. O’Brien JF, Grace PA, Perry IJ, Hannigan A, Clarke Moloney M,
Burke PE. Randomized clinical trial and economic analysis of fourlayer compression bandaging for venous ulcers. Br J Surg 2003;90:
794-8.
287. Morrell CJ, Walters SJ, Dixon S, Collins KA, Brereton LM, Peters J,
et al. Cost effectiveness of community leg ulcer clinics: Randomised
controlled trial. BMJ 1998;316:1487-91.
288. Barwell JR, Davies CE, Deacon J, Harvey K, Minor J, Sassano A, et al.
Comparison of surgery and compression alone in chronic venous ulceration (ESCHAR study): Randomised controlled trial. Lancet
2004;363:1854-9.

54S O’Donnell et al

289. Nelson EA, Bell-Syer SE. Compression for preventing recurrence of
venous ulcers. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012;8:CD002303.
290. Vandongen YK, Stacey MC. Graduated compression elastic stockings
reduce lipodermatosclerosis and ulcer recurrence. Phlebology
2000;15:33-7.
291. Franks PJ, Oldroyd MI, Dickson D, Sharp EJ, Moffatt CJ. Risk factors for leg ulcer recurrence: A randomized trial of two types of
compression stocking. Age Ageing 1995;24:490-4.
292. Mayberry JC, Moneta GL, Taylor LM Jr, Porter JM. Fifteen-year
results of ambulatory compression therapy for chronic venous ulcers.
Surgery 1991;109:575-81.
293. Nelson EA, Harper DR, Prescott RJ, Gibson B, Brown D,
Ruckley CV. Prevention of recurrence of venous ulceration: Randomized controlled trial of class 2 and class 3 elastic compression.
J Vasc Surg 2006;44:803-8.
294. Eriksson G. Comparison of two occlusive bandages in the treatment
of venous leg ulcers. Br J Dermatol 1986;114:227-30.
295. Travers JP, Dalziel KL, Makin GS. Assessment of a new one-layer
adhesive bandaging method in maintaining prolonged limb compression and effects on venous ulcer healing. Phlebology 1992;7:59-63.
296. Nelson EA, Prescott RJ, Harper DR, Gibson B, Brown D,
Ruckley CV. A factorial, randomized trial of pentoxifylline or placebo,
four-layer or single-layer compression, and knitted viscose or hydrocolloid dressings for venous ulcers. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:134-41.
297. O’Meara S, Tierney J, Cullum N, Bland JM, Franks PJ, Mole T, et al.
Four layer bandage compared with short stretch bandage for venous leg
ulcers: Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled
trials with data from individual patients. BMJ 2009;338:b1344.
298. Partsch H, Damstra RJ, Tazelaar DJ, Schuller-Petrovic S, Velders AJ,
de Rooij MJ, et al. Multicentre, randomised controlled trial of fourlayer bandaging versus short-stretch bandaging in the treatment of
venous leg ulcers. Vasa 2001;30:108-13.
299. Feben K. How effective is training in compression bandaging techniques? Br J Community Nurs 2003;8:80-4.
300. Wilkinson E, Buttﬁeld S, Cooper S, Young E. Trial of two bandaging
systems for chronic venous leg ulcers. J Wound Care 1997;6:339-40.
301. Vowden KR, Mason A, Wilkinson D, Vowden P. Comparison of the
healing rates and complications of three four-layer bandage regimens.
J Wound Care 2000;9:269-72.
302. Moffatt CJ, Simon DA, Franks PJ, Connolly M, Fielden S, Groarke L,
et al. Randomised trial comparing two four-layer bandage systems in the
management of chronic leg ulceration. Phlebology 1999;14:139-42.
303. Humphreys ML, Stewart AH, Gohel MS, Taylor M, Whyman MR,
Poskitt KR. Management of mixed arterial and venous leg ulcers. Br J
Surg 2007;94:1104-7.
304. Callam MJ, Ruckley CV, Dale JJ, Harper DR. Hazards of compression treatment of the leg: An estimate from Scottish surgeons. Br Med
J (Clin Res Ed) 1987;295:1382.
305. Merrett ND, Hanel KC. Ischaemic complications of graduated
compression stockings in the treatment of deep venous thrombosis.
Postgrad Med J 1993;69:232-4.
306. Kay TW, Martin FI. Heel ulcers in patients with long-standing diabetes who wear antiembolism stockings. Med J Aust 1986;145:290-1.
307. Halperin MH, Friedland CK, Wilkins RW. The effect of local
compression upon blood ﬂow in the extremities of man. Am Heart J
1948;35:221-37.
308. Mayrovitz HN, Macdonald JM. Medical compression: Effects on
pulsatile leg blood ﬂow. Int Angiol 2010;29:436-41.
309. Mosti G, Iabichella ML, Partsch H. Compression therapy in mixed
ulcers increases venous output and arterial perfusion. J Vasc Surg
2012;55:122-8.
310. Moffatt CJ, Oldroyd MI, Greenhalgh RM, Franks PJ. Palpating ankle
pulses is insufﬁcient in detecting arterial insufﬁciency in patients with
leg ulceration. Phlebology 1994;9:170-2.
311. Marston WA, Carlin RE, Passman MA, Farber MA, Keagy BA.
Healing rates and cost efﬁcacy of outpatient compression treatment
for leg ulcers associated with venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg
1999;30:491-8.
312. Schuren J, Vos A, Allen JO. Venous leg ulcer patients with low ABPIs:
How much pressure is safe and tolerable? EWMA J 2010;10:29-34.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

313. McCulloch JM. Intermittent compression for the treatment of a
chronic stasis ulceration: A case report. Phys Ther 1981;61:1452-3.
314. Pekanmaki K, Kolari PJ, Kiistala U. Intermittent pneumatic
compression treatment for post-thrombotic leg ulcers. Clin Exp
Dermatol 1987;12:350-3.
315. Nelson EA, Mani R, Thomas K, Vowden K. Intermittent pneumatic
compression for treating venous leg ulcers. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2011;2:CD001899.
316. Nikolovska S, Arsovski A, Damevska K, Gocev G, Pavlova L. Evaluation of two different intermittent pneumatic compression cycle settings in the healing of venous ulcers: A randomized trial. Med Sci
Monit 2005;11:CR337-43.
317. van Gent WB, Hop WC, van Praag MC, Mackaay AJ, de Boer EM,
Wittens CH. Conservative versus surgical treatment of venous leg
ulcers: A prospective, randomized, multicenter trial. J Vasc Surg
2006;44:563-71.
318. Gohel MS, Barwell JR, Taylor M, Chant T, Foy C, Earnshaw JJ, et al.
Long term results of compression therapy alone versus compression
plus surgery in chronic venous ulceration (ESCHAR): Randomised
controlled trial. BMJ 2007;335:83.
319. Lin Y, Ye CS, Huang XL, Ye JL, Yin HH, Wang SM. A random
comparative study on endovenous laser therapy and saphenous veins
stripping for the treatment of great saphenous vein incompetence.
Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi 2007;87:3043-6.
320. Theivacumar NS, Darwood R, Gough MJ. Neovascularization and
recurrence 2 years after treatment for sapheno-femoral and great
saphenous reﬂux: A comparison of surgery and endovenous laser. Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;38:203-7.
321. Christenson JT, Gueddi S, Gemayel G, Bounameaux H. Prospective
randomized trial comparing endovenous laser ablation and surgery for
treatment of primary great saphenous varicose veins with a 2-year
follow-up. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:1234-41.
322. Pronk P, Gauw SA, Mooij, Gaastra MT, Lawson JA,
van Goethem AR, et al. Randomised controlled trial comparing
sapheno-femoral ligation and stripping of the great saphenous vein
with endovenous laser ablation (980 nm) using local tumescent
anaesthesia: One year results. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2010;40:
649-56.
323. Carradice D, Mekako AI, Mazari FA, Samuel N, Hatﬁeld J,
Chetter IC. Clinical and technical outcomes from a randomised
clinical trial of endovenous laser ablation with conventional surgery
for great saphenous varicose veins. Br J Surg 2011;98:1117-23.
324. Rass K, Frings N, Glowacki P, Hamsch C, Gräber S, Vogt T, et al.
Comparable effectiveness of endovenous laser ablation and high
ligation with stripping of the great saphenous vein: Two-year results
of a randomized clinical trial (RELACS study). Arch Dermatol
2012;148:49-58.
325. Rasmussen L, Lawaetz M, Bjoern L, Blemings A, Eklof B. Randomized trial comparing endovenous laser ablation and stripping of
the great saphenous vein with duplex outcome after 5 years. J Vasc
Surg 2013;58:421-6.
326. Lurie F, Creton D, Eklof B, Kabnick LS, Kistner RL, Pichot O, et al.
Prospective randomized study of endovenous radiofrequency obliteration (Closure) versus ligation and vein stripping (EVOLVeS). Two
year follow-up. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;29:67-73.
327. Perala J, Rautio T, Biancari F, Ohtonen P, Wiik H, Heikkinen T, et al.
Radiofrequency endovenous obliteration versus stripping of the long
saphenous vein in the management of primary varicose veins: 3-year
outcome of a randomized study. Ann Vasc Surg 2005;19:1-4.
328. Kianifard B, Holdstock JM, Whiteley MS. Radiofrequency ablation
(VNUS Closure) does not cause neo-vascularization at the groin at
one year: Results of a case controlled study. Surgeon 2006;4:71-4.
329. Stötter L, Schaaf I, Bockelbrink A. Comparative outcomes of radiofrequency endoluminal ablation, invagination stripping and cryostripping in the treatment of great saphenous vein. Phlebology
2006;21:60-4.
330. Helmy ElKaffas K, ElKashef O, ElBaz W. Great saphenous vein
radiofrequency ablation versus standard stripping in the management
of primary varicose veinsda randomized clinical trial. Angiology
2010;62:49-54.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

331. O’Hare JL, Earnshaw JJ. Randomised clinical trial of foam sclerotherapy for patients with a venous leg ulcer. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2010;39:495-9.
332. Eklöf B, Perrin M. Randomised controlled trials comparing endovenous thermal and chemical ablation. In: Greenhalgh R, editor.
Vascular and endovascular challenges update. London: BIBA Publishing; 2013. p. 402-8.
333. Lakhwani MN, Dadlani NI, Wong YC. 980-nm laser therapy versus
varicose vein surgery in racially diverse Penang, Malaysia. ANZ J Surg
2009;79:352-7.
334. Zamboni P, Cisno C, Marchetti F, Mazza P, Fogato L, Carandina S,
et al. Minimally invasive surgical management of primary venous ulcers vs. compression treatment: A randomized clinical trial. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2003:25313-8.
335. Howard DP, Howard A, Kothari A, Wales L, Guest M, Davies AH.
The role of superﬁcial venous surgery in the management of venous
ulcers: A systematic review. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2008;36:
458-65.
336. Neglén P. Prevention and treatment of venous ulcers in primary
chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 2010;52(Suppl):15S-20S.
337. Harlander-Locke M, Lawrence PF, Alktaiﬁ A, Jimenez JC,
Rigberg D, DeRubertis B. The impact of ablation of incompetent
superﬁcial and perforator veins on ulcer healing rates. J Vasc Surg
2012;55:458-64.
338. Viarengo LMA, Poterio-Filho J, Poterio GMB, Menezes FH,
Meirelles GV. Endovenous laser treatment for varicose veins in
patients with active ulcers: Measurement of intravenous and perivenous temperatures during the procedure. Dermatol Surg 2007;33:
1234-41.
339. Gloviczki P, Bergan JJ, Menawat SS, Hobson RW 2nd, Kistner RL,
Lawrence PF, et al. Safety, feasibility, and early efﬁcacy of subfascial
endoscopic perforator surgery: A preliminary report from the North
American registry. J Vasc Surg 1997;25:94-105.
340. Tenbrook JA Jr, Iafrati MD, O’Donnell TF Jr, Wolf MP,
Hoffman SN, Pauker SG, et al. Systematic review of outcomes after
surgical management of venous disease incorporating subfascial
endoscopic perforator surgery. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:583-93.
341. Masuda FM, Kessler DM, Lurie F, Puggioni A, Kistner RL, Eklof B.
The effect of ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy of incompetent perforating veins on venous clinical severity and disability scores. J Vasc
Surg 2006;43:551-7.
342. Kinanifard B, Holdstock J, Allen C, Smith C, Price B, Whiteley MS.
Randomized clinical trial of the effect of adding subfascial endoscopic
perforator surgery to standard great saphenous vein stripping. Br J
Surg 2007;94:1075-80.
343. Proebstle TM, Herdemann S. Early results and feasibility of incompetent perforator vein ablation by endovenous laser treatment. Dermatol Surg 2007;33:162-8.
344. Elias S, Peden E. Ultrasound-guided percutaneous ablation for the
treatment of perforating vein incompetence. Vascular 2007;15:281-9.
345. Luebke T, Brunkwall J. Meta-analysis of subfascial endoscopic
perforator vein surgery (SEPS) for chronic venous insufﬁciency.
Phlebology 2009;24:8-16.
346. Bacon JL, Dinneen AJ, Marsh P, Holdstock JM, Price BA,
Whiteley MS. Five-year results of incompetent perforator vein closure
using TRans-Luminal Occlusion of Perforator. Phlebology 2009;24:
74-8.
347. O’Donnell TF. The role of perforators in chronic venous insufﬁciency.
Phlebology 2010;25:3-10.
348. Harlander-Locke M, Lawrence P, Jimenez JC, Rigberg D,
DeRubertis B, Gelabert H. Combined treatment with compression
therapy and ablation of incompetent superﬁcial and perforating veins
reduces ulcer recurrence in patients with CEAP 5 venous disease.
J Vasc Surg 2012;55:446-50.
349. Lawrence PF, Alktaiﬁ A, Rigberg D, DeRubertis B, Gelabert H,
Jimenez JC. Endovenous ablation of incompetent perforating veins is
effective treatment for recalcitrant venous ulcers. J Vasc Surg
2011;54:737-42.
350. Pierik EG, van Urk H, Hop WC, Wittens CH. Endoscopic versus
open subfascial division of incompetent perforating veins in the

O’Donnell et al 55S

treatment of venous leg ulceration: A randomized trial. J Vasc Surg
1997;26:1049-54.
351. Nelzen O. Prospective study of safety, patient satisfaction and leg
ulcer healing following saphenous and subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery. Br J Surg 2000;87:86-91.
352. Iafrati MD, Pare GJ, O’Donnell TF, Estes J. Is the nihilistic approach
to surgical reduction of superﬁcial and perforator vein incompetence
for venous ulcer justiﬁed? J Vasc Surg 2002;36:1167-74.
353. Van Gent W, Wittens C. Inﬂuence of perforating vein surgery in
patients with venous ulceration. Phlebology 2013. Dec 19 [Epub
ahead of print].
354. Gloviczki P, Bergan JJ, Rhodes JM, Canton LG, Harmsen S,
Ilstrup DM. Mid-term results of endoscopic perforator vein interruption for chronic venous insufﬁciency: Lessons learned from the
North American Subfascial Endoscopic Perforator Surgery registry.
J Vasc Surg 1999;29:489-502.
355. Vranic H, Hadzimehmeddagic A, Mirsad KM, Mirza D, Adnana T.
Combined compressive-surgical treatment of chronic venous ulcer of
the leg. HealthMed 2010;4:890-5.
356. Bush R, Bush P. Percutaneous foam sclerotherapy for venous leg
ulcers. J Wound Care 2013;22(Suppl):S20-2.
357. Rueda CA, Bittenbinder EN, Buckley CJ, Bohannon WT,
Atkins MD, Bush RL. The management of chronic venous insufﬁciency with ulceration: The role of minimally invasive perforator
interruption. Ann Vasc Surg 2013;27:89-95.
358. Bush RG. New technique to heal venous ulcers: Terminal interruption
of the reﬂux source (TIRS). Perspect Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther
2010;22:194-9.
359. O’Donnell TF, Mackey WC, Shepard AD, Callow AD. Clinical, hemodynamic, and anatomic follow-up of direct venous reconstruction.
Arch Surg 1987;122:474-82.
360. Bry JD, Muto PA, O’Donnell TF, Isaacson LA. The clinical and
hemodynamic results after axillary-to-popliteal vein valve transplantation. J Vasc Surg 1995;21:110-9.
361. Raju S. Venous insufﬁciency of the lower limb and stasis ulceration: Changing concepts and management. Ann Surg 1983;197:
688-97.
362. Raju S, Fredericks R. Valve reconstruction procedures for nonobstructive venous insufﬁciency: Rationale, techniques, and results in
107 procedures with two- to eight-year follow-up. J Vasc Surg
1988;7:301-10.
363. Perrin MR. Results of deep-vein reconstruction. Vasc Surg 1997;31:
273-5.
364. Taheri SA, Lazar L, Elias SM, Marchand P. Vein valve transplant.
Surgery 1982;91:28-33.
365. Taheri SA, Elias SM, Yacobucci GN, Heffner R, Lazar L. Indications
and results of vein valve transplant. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino)
1986;27:163-8.
366. Nash T. Long-term results of vein valve transplants placed in the
popliteal vein for intractable post-phlebitic venous ulcers and pre-ulcer
skin changes. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1988;29:712-6.
367. Rai DB, Lerner R. Chronic venous insufﬁciency disease: Its etiology:
A new technique for vein valve transplantation. Int Surg 1991;76:
174-8.
368. Sottiurai VS. Results of deep-vein reconstruction. Vasc Surg 1997;31:
276-8.
369. Eklof BG, Kistner RL, Masuda EM. Venous bypass and valve
reconstruction: Long-term efﬁcacy. Vasc Med 1998;3:157-64.
370. Puggioni A, Kistner RL, Eklof B, Lurie F. Surgical disobliteration of
postthrombotic deep veinsdendophlebectomydis feasible. J Vasc
Surg 2004;39:1048-52.
371. Gloviczki P, Cho JS. Surgical treatment of chronic occlusions of the iliac
veins and the inferior vena cava. In: Rutherford RB, editor. Vascular
surgery. 6th ed. Philadelphia: Saunders Elsevier; 2005. p. 2303-20.
372. Vogel D, Comerota AJ, Al Jabouri M, Assi Z. Common femoral
endovenectomy with iliocaval endoluminal recanalization improves
symptoms and quality of life in patients with postthrombotic iliofemoral obstruction. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:129-35.
373. Garg N, Gloviczki P, Karimi KM, Duncan AA, Bjarnason H, Kalra M,
et al. Factors affecting outcome of open and hybrid reconstructions

56S O’Donnell et al

for nonmalignant obstruction of iliofemoral veins and inferior vena
cava. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:383-93.
374. Linton RR, Hardy JB. Postthrombotic syndrome of the lower extremity. Treatment by interruption of the superﬁcial femoral vein and
ligation and stripping of the long and short saphenous veins. Surgery
1948;24:452-68.
375. Eriksson I, Almgren MD. Inﬂuence of the profunda femoris vein on
venous hemodynamics of the limb. Experience from thirty-one deep
vein valve reconstructions. J Vasc Surg 1986;4:390-5.
376. Masuda EM, Kistner RL, Ferris EB. Long-term effects of superﬁcial
femoral vein ligation: Thirteen-year follow-up. J Vasc Surg 1992;16:
741-9.
377. Tripathi R, Sieunarine K, Abbas M, Durrani N. Deep venous reconstruction for non-healing leg ulcers: Techniques and results. ANZ J
Surg 2004;74:34-9.
378. Raju S, Fredericks RK, Neglen PN, Bass JD. Durability of venous
valve reconstruction techniques for “primary” and post-thrombotic
reﬂux. J Vasc Surg 1996;23:357-67.
379. Lane JL, Cuzzilla ML, McMahon DG. Intermediate to long-term
results of repairing incompetent multiple deep venous valves using
external valvular stenting. ANZ J Surg 2003;73:267-74.
380. Guarnera G, Furgiuele S, Mascellari L, Bianchini G, Camilli S.
External banding of the superﬁcial femoral vein in the treatment of
recurrent varicose veins. Int Angiol 1998;17:268-71.
381. Makhatilov G, Askerkhanov G, Kazakmurzaevv MA, Ismailov I.
Endoscopically directed external support of femoral vein valves. J Vasc
Surg 2009;49:676-80.
382. Raju S, Berry MA, Neglen P. Transcommissural valvuloplasty: Technique and results. J Vasc Surg 2000;32:969-76.
383. Raju S, Hardy JD. Technical options in venous valve reconstruction.
Am J Surg 1997;173:301-7.
384. Nishibe T, Kudo F, Flores J, Miyazaki K, Yasuda K. Femoral vein
valve repair with angioscopy-assisted anterior valve sinus plication.
Early results. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2001;42:529-35.
385. Kistner RL. Surgical technique of external venous valve repair. Straub
Found Proc 1990;55:15.
386. Nishibe T, Kudo F, Miyazaki K, Kondo Y, Koizumi J, Dardik A, et al.
Intermediate-term results of angioscopy-assisted anterior valve sinus
plication for primary deep venous insufﬁciency. J Cardiovasc Surg
(Torino) 2007;48:21-5.
387. Gloviczki P, Merrell SW, Bower TC. Femoral vein valve repair under
direct vision without venotomy: A modiﬁed technique with use of
angioscopy. J Vasc Surg 1991;14:645-8.
388. Belcaro G, Nicolaides AN, Ricci A, Laurora G, Errichi BM,
Christopoulos D, et al. External femoral vein valvuloplasty with
limited anterior plication (LAP): A 10-year randomized, follow-up
study. Angiology 1999;50:531-6.
389. Wang S, Hu Z, Li S, Huang XL, Ye CS. Effect of external valvuloplasty of the deep vein in the treatment of chronic venous insufﬁciency
of the lower extremity. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:1296-300.
390. Us M, Basaran M, Sanioglu S, Ogus NT, Ozbek C, Yildirim T, et al.
The use of external banding increases the durability of transcommissural external deep venous valve repair. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2007;33:494-550.
391. Ferris EB, Kistner RL. Femoral vein reconstruction in the management of chronic venous insufﬁciency: A 14-year experience. Arch Surg
1982;117:1571-9.
392. Eriksson I. Reconstructive surgery for deep vein valve incompetence
in the lower limb. Eur J Vasc Surg 1990;4:211-8.
393. Cheatle TR, Perrin M. Venous valve repair: Early results in ﬁfty-two
cases. J Vasc Surg 1994;19:404-13.
394. Masuda EM, Kistner RL. Long-term results of venous valve reconstruction: A four to twenty-one year follow-up. J Vasc Surg 1994;19:
391-403.
395. Perrin M. Reconstructive surgery for deep venous reﬂux: A report on
144 cases. Cardiovasc Surg 2000;8:246-55.
396. Tripathi R, Ktenidis KD. Trapdoor internal valvuloplasty: A new
technique for primary deep vein valvular incompetence. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2001;22:86-9.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

397. Perrin M, Hiltbrand B, Bayon JM. Results of valvuloplasty in patients
presenting deep venous insufﬁciency and recurring ulceration. Ann
Vasc Surg 1999;13:524-32.
398. Kistner RL. Surgical repair of the incompetent femoral vein valve.
Arch Surg 1975;110:1336-42.
399. Lurie F, Makarova NP, Hmelniker SM. Results of deep-vein reconstruction. Vasc Surg 1997;31:275-6.
400. Johnson ND, Queral LA, Flinn WR, Yao JS, Bergan JJ. Late objective
assessment of venous valve surgery. Arch Surg 1981;116:146-66.
401. Sottiurai VS. Current surgical approaches to venous hypertension and
valvular reﬂux. Int J Angiol 1996;5:49-54.
402. Cardon JM, Cardon A, Joyeux A, Mangialardi N, Noblet D,
Nguyen T, et al. Use of ipsilateral greater saphenous vein as a valved
transplant in management of post-thrombotic deep venous insufﬁciency: Long-term results. Ann Vasc Surg 1999;13:284-9.
403. Lehtola A, Oinonen A, Sugano N, Albäck A, Lepäntalo M. Deep
venous reconstructions: Long-term outcome in patients with primary
or post-thrombotic deep venous incompetence. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2008;35:487-93.
404. Queral LA, Whitehouse WM Jr, Flinn WR, Neiman HL, Yao JS,
Bergan JJ. Surgical correction of chronic deep venous insufﬁciency by
valvular transposition. Surgery 1980;87:688-95.
405. Iafrati M, O’Donnell TF. Surgical reconstruction for deep venous
insufﬁciency. J Mal Vasc 1997;22:193-7.
406. Raju S, Neglen P, Doolittle J, Meydrech EF. Axillary vein transfer in
trabeculated postthrombotic veins. J Vasc Surg 1999;29:1050-64.
407. Opie JC, Payne DN, Opie SR. Monocuspdnovel common femoral
vein monocusp surgery uncorrectable chronic venous insufﬁciency
with aplastic/dysplastic valves. Phlebology 2008;23:158-71.
408. Ignat’ev IM, Akhmetzianov RV, Bredikhin RA. First experience in
forming a multi-ﬂap valve of the common femoral vein in avalvulation
of the deep veins of lower extremities. Angiol Sosud Khir 2010;16:
77-9.
409. Lugli M, Guerzoni S, Garofalo M, Smedile G, Maleti O. Neovalve
construction in deep venous incompetence. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:
156-63.
410. Maleti O, Perrin M. Reconstructive surgery for deep vein reﬂux in the
lower limbs: Techniques, results and indications. Eur J Vasc Surg
2011;41:837-48.
411. Neglen P, Thrasher TL, Raju S. Venous outﬂow obstruction: An
underestimated contributor to chronic venous disease. J Vasc Surg
2003;38:879-85.
412. Labropoulos N, Volteas N, Leon M, Sowade O, Rulo A,
Giannoukas AD, et al. The role of venous outﬂow obstruction in
patients with chronic venous dysfunction. Arch Surg 1997;132:46-51.
413. Hartung O, Loundou AD, Barthelemy P, Amoux D, Bouﬁ M,
Alimi YS. Endovascular management of chronic disabling ilio-caval
obstructive lesions: Long-term results. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2009;38:118-24.
414. Meng QY, Li XQ, Qian AM, Sang HF, Rong JJ, Zhu LW. Endovascular treatment of iliac vein compression syndrome. Chin Med J
(Engl) 2011;124:3281-4.
415. Neglen P, Hollis KC, Olivier J, Raju S. Stenting of the venous outﬂow
in chronic venous disease: Long-term stent-related outcome, clinical,
and hemodynamic result. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:979-90.
416. Ye K, Lu X, Li W, Huang Y, Huang X, Lu M, et al. Long-term
outcomes of stent placement for symptomatic nonthrombotic iliac
vein compression lesions in chronic venous disease. J Vasc Interv
Radiol 2012;23:497-502.
417. Raju S, Neglen P. Percutaneous recanalization of total occlusions of
the iliac vein. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:360-8.
418. Rosales A, Sandbaek G, Jorgensen JJ. Stenting for chronic postthrombotic vena cava and iliofemoral venous occlusions: mid-term
patency and clinical outcome. Eur J Vasc Endovasc 2010;40:234-40.
419. Raju S. Best management options for chronic iliac vein stenosis and
occlusion. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:1163-9.
420. Kolbel T, Lindh M, Akesson M, Wasselius J, Gottsater A, Ivancev K.
Chronic iliac vein occlusion: Midterm results of endovascular recanalization. J Endovasc Therapy 2009;16:483-91.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

421. Alhalbouni S, Hingorani A, Shiferson A, Gopal K, Jung D, Novak D,
et al. Iliac-femoral venous stenting for lower extremity venous stasis
symptoms. Ann Vasc Surg 2012;26:185-9.
422. Gutzeit A, ChL Zollikofer, Dettling-Pizzolato M, Graf N,
Largiader J, Binkert CA. Endovascular stent treatment for symptomatic benign iliofemoral venous occlusive disease: Long-term results 1987-2009. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2011;34:542-9.
423. Hurst DR, Forauer AR, Bloom JR, Greenﬁeld LJ, Wakeﬁeld TW,
Williams DM. Diagnosis and endovascular treatment of iliocaval
compression syndrome. J Vasc Surg 2001;34:106-13.
424. Juhan C, Hartung O, Alimi Y, Barthelemy P, Valerio N, Portier F.
Treatment of nonmalignant obstructive iliocaval lesions by stent
placement: Mid-term results. Ann Vasc Surg 2001;15:227-32.
425. Kurklinsky AK, Bjarnason H, Friese JL, Wysokinski WE, McBane RD,
Misselt A, et al. Outcomes of venoplasty with stent placement for
chronic thrombosis of the iliac and femoral veins: Single-center
experience. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2012;23:1009-15.
426. Oguzkurt L, Tercan F, Ozkan U, Gulcan O. Iliac vein compression
syndrome: Outcome of endovascular treatment with long-term
follow-up. Eur J Radiol 2008;68:487-92.
427. O’Sullivan GJ, Semba CP, Bittner CA, Kee ST, Razavi MK, Sze DY,
et al. Endovascular management of iliac vein compression (MayThurner) syndrome. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2000;11:823-36.
428. Neglen P, Tackett TP Jr, Raju S. Venous stenting across the inguinal
ligament. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:1255-61.
429. Danza R, Navarro T, Baldizan J. Reconstructive surgery in chronic
venous obstruction of the lower limbs. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino)
1991;32:98-103.
430. Gloviczki P, Pairolero PC, Toomey BJ, Bower TC, Rooke TW,
Stanson AW, et al. Reconstruction of large veins for nonmalignant
venous occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg 1992;16:750-61.
431. Jost CJ, Gloviczki P, Cherry KJ Jr, McKusick MA, Harmsen WS,
Jenkins GD, et al. Surgical reconstruction of iliofemoral veins and the
inferior vena cava for nonmalignant occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg
2001;33:320-7; discussion: 327-8.
432. Lalka SG, Unthank JL, Last HM, McGue JF, Cikrit DF, Sawchuk AP,
et al. Hemodynamic effects of varied graft diameters in the venous
system. Surgery 1991;110:73-9.
433. Lalka SG, Lash JM, Unthank JL, Lalka VK, Cikrit DF, Sawchuk AP,
et al. Inadequacy of saphenous vein grafts for cross-femoral venous
bypass. J Vasc Surg 1991;13:622-30.
434. Halliday P, Harris J, May JJE. Femoro-femoral crossover grafts
(Palma operation): A long-term follow-up study. In: Bergan JJ,
Yao JST, editors. Surgery of the veins. Orlando, Fla: Grune &
Stratton; 1985. p. 241-54.
435. Harris JP, Kidd J, Burnett A, Halliday P, May J. Patency of femorofemoral venous crossover grafts assessed by duplex scanning and
phlebography. J Vasc Surg 1988;8:679-82.
436. Danza R, Nav Raju S. New approaches to the diagnosis and treatment
of venous obstruction. J Vasc Surg 1986;4:42-54.
437. Dalsing MC, Lalka SG, Zukowski AJ, Unthank JL, Sawchuk AP,
Cikrit DF. Valve transplantation to the canine popliteal vein: The
utility of a distal arteriovenous ﬁstula and the hemodynamic result of a
single functional valve. J Vasc Surg 1994;20:736-43.
438. Edwards WS. A-V ﬁstula after venous reconstruction. A simpliﬁed
method of producing and obliterating the shunt. Ann Surg 1982;196:
669-71.
439. Eklof B. Arteriovenous ﬁstulas as an adjunct to venous surgery. Semin
Vasc Surg 2000;13:20-6.
440. Plate G, Akesson H, Einarsson E, Ohlin P, Eklof B. Long-term results
of venous thrombectomy combined with a temporary arterio-venous
ﬁstula. Eur J Vasc Surg 1990;4:483-9.
441. Gwilt M, Athis J. Treating venous leg ulceration with complementary
therapy. Community Nurse 2000;6:51-3.
442. Clarke-Moloney M, Lyons GM, Burke PE, O’Keeffe D, Grace PA.
A review of technological approaches to venous ulceration. Crit Rev
Biomed Eng 2005;33:511-56.
443. Heinen MM, van Achterberg T, op Reimer WS, van de Kerkhof PC, de
Laat E. Venous leg ulcer patients: A review of the literature on lifestyle
and pain-related interventions. J Clin Nurs 2004;13:355-66.

O’Donnell et al 57S

444. Robson MC, Cooper DM, Aslam R, Gould LJ, Harding KG,
Margolis DJ, et al. Guidelines for the treatment of venous ulcers.
Wound Repair Regen 2006;14:649-62.
445. Cullum N, Nelson EA, Flemming K, Sheldon T. Systematic reviews of
wound care management: (5) beds; (6) compression; (7) laser therapy, therapeutic ultrasound, electrotherapy and electromagnetic
therapy. Health Technol Assess 2001;5:1-221.
446. Ramelet AA. Controversies on emerging and obsolete therapies in
venous leg ulcers. Curr Probl Dermatol 1999;27:161-4.
447. Phillips TJ. Successful methods of treating leg ulcers. The tried and
true, plus the novel and new. Postgrad Med 1999;105:159-61, 1656, 173-4 passim.
448. Bello YM, Phillips TJ. Management of venous ulcers. J Cutan Med
Surg 1998;3(Suppl 1):S1-6-12.
449. Marston WA, Farber MA, Bryant J, Burns J, Keagy BA. Management
of lower extremity venous stasis ulcers in a comprehensive wound care
clinic. N C Med J 1998;59:128-31.
450. Wissing UE, Wengstrom Y, Skold G, Unosson M. Can individualized
nutritional support improve healing in therapy-resistant leg ulcers?
J Wound Care 2002;11:15-20.
451. Pompeo M. Misconceptions about protein requirements for wound
healing: Results of a prospective study. Ostomy Wound Manage
2007;53:30.
452. Rojas AI, Phillips TJ. Patients with chronic leg ulcers show diminished
levels of vitamins A and E, carotenes, and zinc. Dermatol Surg
1999;25:601-4.
453. Legendre C, Debure C, Meaume S, Lok C, Golmard JL, Senet P.
Impact of protein deﬁciency on venous ulcer healing. J Vasc Surg
2008;48:688-93.
454. Wipke-Tevis DD, Stotts NA. Nutrition, tissue oxygenation, and
healing of venous leg ulcers. J Vasc Nurs 1998;16:48-56.
455. Coleridge Smith PD, editor. Drug treatment of varicose veins, venous
edema, and ulcers. London: Hodder Arnold; 2009.
456. Greaves MW, Skillen AW. Effects of long-continued ingestion of zinc
sulphate in patients with venous leg ulceration. Lancet 1970;2:889-91.
457. Wilkinson EA, Hawke CI. Does oral zinc aid the healing of chronic leg
ulcers? A systematic literature review. Arch Dermatol 1998;134:1556-60.
458. Browse NL, Burnand KG. The cause of venous ulceration. Lancet
1982;2:243-5.
459. Layer GT, Stacey MC, Burnand KG. Stanozolol and the treatment of
venous ulceration: An interim report. Phlebology 1986;1:197-203.
460. Browse NL, Jarrett PE, Morland M, Burnand K. Treatment of liposclerosis of the leg by ﬁbrinolytic enhancement: A preliminary report.
Br Med J 1977;2:434-5.
461. Coccheri S, Scondotto G, Agnelli G, Aloisi D, Palazzini E,
Zamboni V. Randomised, double blind, multicentre, placebo
controlled study of sulodexide in the treatment of venous leg ulcers.
Thromb Haemost 2002;87:947-52.
462. Layton AM, Ibbotson SH, Davies JA, Goodﬁeld MJ. Randomised
trial of oral aspirin for chronic venous leg ulcers. Lancet 1994;344:164-5.
463. Lyon RT, Veith FJ, Bolton L, Machado F. Clinical benchmark for
healing of chronic venous ulcers. Venous Ulcer Study Collaborators.
Am J Surg 1998;176:172-5.
464. Beitner H, Hammar H, Olsson AG, Thyresson N. Prostaglandin E1
treatment of leg ulcers caused by venous or arterial incompetence.
Acta Derm Venereol 1980;60:425-30.
465. Rudofsky G. Intravenous prostaglandin E1 in the treatment of venous
ulcersda double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Vasa Suppl 1989;28:
39-43.
466. Milio G, Mina C, Cospite V, Almasio PL, Novo S. Efﬁcacy of the
treatment with prostaglandin E-1 in venous ulcers of the lower limbs.
J Vasc Surg 2005;42:304-8.
467. Coleridge Smith PD, Thomas P, Scurr JH, Dormandy JA. Causes of
venous ulceration: A new hypothesis. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed)
1988;296:1726-7.
468. Lyseng-Williamson KA, Perry CM. Micronised puriﬁed ﬂavonoid
fraction: A review of its use in chronic venous insufﬁciency, venous
ulcers and haemorrhoids. Drugs 2003;63:71-100.
469. Guilhou JJ, Dereure O, Marzin L, Ouvry P, Zuccarelli F,
Debure C, et al. Efﬁcacy of Daﬂon 500 mg in venous leg ulcer

58S O’Donnell et al

healing: A double-blind, randomized, controlled versus placebo
trial in 107 patients. Angiology 1997;48:77-85.
470. Coleridge-Smith P, Lok C, Ramelet AA. Venous leg ulcer: A metaanalysis of adjunctive therapy with micronized puriﬁed ﬂavonoid
fraction. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;30:198-208.
471. Guilhou JJ, Fevrier F, Debure C, Dubeaux D, Gillet-Terver MN,
Guillot B, et al. Beneﬁt of a 2-month treatment with a micronized,
puriﬁed ﬂavonoidic fraction on venous ulcer healing. A randomized,
double-blind, controlled versus placebo trial. Int J Microcirc Clin Exp
1997;17(Suppl 1):21-6.
472. Glinski W, Chodynicka B, Roszkiewicz J, et al. [Effectiveness of a
micronized puriﬁed ﬂavonoid fraction (MPFF) in the healing process
of lower limb ulcers. An open multicentre study, controlled and
randomized]. Minerva Cardioangiol 2001;49:107-14.
473. Smith PC. Daﬂon 500 mg and venous leg ulcer: New results from a
meta-analysis. Angiology 2005;56(Suppl 1):S33-9.
474. Gohel MS, Davies AH. Pharmacological treatment in patients with
C4, C5 and C6 venous disease. Phlebology 2010;25(Suppl 1):35-41.
475. Katsenis K. Micronized puriﬁed ﬂavonoid fraction (MPFF): A review
of its pharmacological effects, therapeutic efﬁcacy and beneﬁts in the
management of chronic venous insufﬁciency. Curr Vasc Pharmacol
2005;3:1-9.
476. Coleridge Smith PD. From skin disorders to venous leg ulcers:
Pathophysiology and efﬁcacy of Daﬂon 500 mg in ulcer healing.
Angiology 2003;54(Suppl 1):S45-50.
477. Jull A, Arroll B, Parag V, Waters J. Pentoxifylline for treating venous
leg ulcers. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2007;3:CD001733.
478. Jull A, Waters J, Arroll B. Pentoxifylline for treatment of venous leg
ulcers: A systematic review. Lancet 2002;359:1550-4.
479. De Sanctis MT, Belcaro G, Cesarone MR, Ippolito E, Nicolaides AN,
Incandela L, et al. Treatment of venous ulcers with pentoxifylline: A
12-month, double-blind, placebo controlled trial. Microcirculation
and healing. Angiology 2002;53(Suppl 1):S49-51.
480. Falanga V, Fujitani RM, Diaz C, Hunter G, Jorizzo J, Lawrence PF,
et al. Systemic treatment of venous leg ulcers with high doses of
pentoxifylline: Efﬁcacy in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.
Wound Repair Regen 1999;7:208-13.
481. Dale JJ, Ruckley CV, Harper DR, Gibson B, Nelson EA, Prescott RJ.
Randomised, double blind placebo controlled trial of pentoxifylline in
the treatment of venous leg ulcers. BMJ 1999;319:875-8.
482. Mirshahi S, Soria J, Mirshahi M, et al. Expression of elastase and ﬁbrin
in venous leg ulcer biopsies: A pilot study of pentoxifylline versus
placebo. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 1995;25(Suppl 2):S101-5.
483. Iglesias CP, Claxton K. Comprehensive decision-analytic model
and Bayesian value-of-information analysis: Pentoxifylline in the
treatment of chronic venous leg ulcers. Pharmacoeconomics 2006;24:
465-78.
484. Sullivan GW, Carper HT, Novick WJ Jr, Mandell GL. Inhibition of
the inﬂammatory action of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor
(alpha) on neutrophil function by pentoxifylline. Infect Immun
1988;56:1722-9.
485. Heinen MM, Evers AW, Van Uden CJ, Van der Vleuten CJ, van de
Kerkhof PC, Van Achterberg T. Sedentary patients with venous or
mixed leg ulcers: Determinants of physical activity. J Adv Nurs
2007;60:50-7.
486. Heinen MM, van der Vleuten C, de Rooij MJ, Uden CJ, Evers AW, van
Achterberg T. Physical activity and adherence to compression therapy in
patients with venous leg ulcers. Arch Dermatol 2007;143:1283-8.
487. Roaldsen KS, Rollman O, Torebjork E, Olsson E, Stanghelle JK.
Functional ability in female leg ulcer patientsda challenge for physiotherapy. Physiother Res Int 2006;11:191-203.
488. Brown A. Life-style advice and self-care strategies for venous leg ulcer
patients: What is the evidence? J Wound Care 2012;21:342-4, 346,
348-50.
489. Kelechi TJ, Green A, Dumas B, Brotherton SS. Online coaching for a
lower limb physical activity program for individuals at home with a
history of venous ulcers. Home Healthc Nurse 2010;28:596-605.
490. Jull A, Parag V, Walker N, Maddison R, Kerse N, Johns T. The
prepare pilot RCT of home-based progressive resistance exercises for
venous leg ulcers. J Wound Care 2009;18:497-503.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
August Supplement 2014

491. Davies JA, Bull RH, Farrelly IJ, Wakelin MJ. A home-based exercise
programme improves ankle range of motion in long-term venous
ulcer patients. Phlebology 2007;22:86-9.
492. Padberg FT Jr, Johnston MV, Sisto SA. Structured exercise improves
calf muscle pump function in chronic venous insufﬁciency: A randomized trial. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:79-87.
493. Kan YM, Delis KT. Hemodynamic effects of supervised calf muscle
exercise in patients with venous leg ulceration: A prospective
controlled study. Arch Surg 2001;136:1364-9.
494. Klyscz T, Junger M, Rassner G. Physical therapy of the ankle joint in
patients with chronic venous incompetence and arthrogenic congestive syndrome. Curr Probl Dermatol 1999;27:141-7.
495. Stahel HU. Manual lymph drainage. Curr Probl Dermatol 1999;27:
148-52.
496. Pereira de Godoy JM, Braile DM, de Fatima Guerreiro Godoy M.
Lymph drainage in patients with joint immobility due to chronic ulcerated lesions. Phlebology 2008;23:32-4.
497. Carpentier PH, Blaise S, Satger B. A multicenter randomized
controlled trial evaluating balneotherapy in patients with advanced
chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:447-54.
498. Ippolito E, De Luca S, Sommaruga S, Grassellino V, Nappi G.
Experimental-clinical study on the effects of hydromassage with
Thermae Oasis’s salsobromoiodine water in chronic venous stasis
disease of the lower extremities. Minerva Cardioangiol 2008;56:
401-8.
499. Ernst E, Saradeth T, Resch KL. A single blind randomized, controlled
trial of hydrotherapy for varicose veins. Vasa 1991;20:147-52.
500. Dodd HJ, Sarkany I, Gaylarde PM. The short-term beneﬁt and longterm failure of ultraviolet light in the treatment of venous leg ulcers.
Br J Dermatol 1989;120:809-18.
501. Rabe E, Hertel S, Bock E, Hoffmann B, Jockel KH, Pannier F.
Therapy with compression stockings in Germanydresults from the
Bonn Vein Studies. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2013;11:257-61.
502. Criqui MH, Jamosmos M, Fronek A, Denenberg JO, Langer RD,
Bergan J, et al. Chronic venous disease in an ethnically diverse population:
The San Diego Population Study. Am J Epidemiol 2003;158:448-56.
503. Labropoulos N, Leon L, Kwon S, Tassiopoulos A, GonzalezFajardo JA, Kang SS, et al. Study of the venous reﬂux progression.
J Vasc Surg 2005;41:291-5.
504. Vogeley CL, Coeling H. Prevention of venous ulceration by use of
compression after deep vein thrombosis. J Vasc Nurs 2000;18:123-7.
505. Araki CT, Back TL, Padberg FT, Thompson PN, Jamil Z, Lee BC,
et al. The signiﬁcance of calf muscle pump function in venous ulceration. J Vasc Surg 1994;20:872-7; discussion: 878-9.
506. Zajkowski PJ, Proctor MC, Wakeﬁeld TW, Bloom J, Blessing B,
Greenﬁeld LJ. Compression stockings and venous function. Arch
Surg 2002;137:1064-8.
507. Ibegbuna V, Delis KT, Nicolaides AN, Aina O. Effect of elastic
compression stockings on venous hemodynamics during walking.
J Vasc Surg 2003;37:420-5.
508. Amsler F, Blattler W. Compression therapy for occupational leg
symptoms and chronic venous disordersda meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2008;35:366-72.
509. Mosti G, Partsch H. Compression stockings with a negative pressure
gradient have a more pronounced effect on venous pumping function
than graduated elastic compression stockings. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2011;42:261-6.
510. Mosti G, Partsch H. High compression pressure over the calf is more
effective than graduated compression in enhancing venous pump
function. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2012;44:332-6.
511. Motykie GD, Caprini JA, Arcelus JI, Reyna JJ, Overom E, Mokhtee D.
Evaluation of therapeutic compression stockings in the treatment of
chronic venous insufﬁciency. Dermatol Surg 1999;25:116-20.
512. Korn P, Patel ST, Heller JA, Deitch JS, Krishnasastry KV, Bush HL,
et al. Why insurers should reimburse for compression stockings in
patients with chronic venous stasis. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:950-7.
513. Berard A, Abenhaim L, Platt R, Kahn SR, Steinmetz O. Risk factors
for the ﬁrst-time development of venous ulcers of the lower limbs:
The inﬂuence of heredity and physical activity. Angiology 2002;53:
647-57.

JOURNAL OF VASCULAR SURGERY
Volume 60, Number 2S

514. Welkie JF, Comerota AJ, Katz ML, Aldridge SC, Kerr RP, White JV.
Hemodynamic deterioration in chronic venous disease. J Vasc Surg
1992;16:733-40.
515. Maurins U, Hoffmann BH, Losch C, Jockel KH, Rabe E, Pannier F.
Distribution and prevalence of reﬂux in the superﬁcial and deep
venous system in the general populationdresults from the Bonn Vein
Study, Germany. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:680-7.
516. Haenen JH, Janssen MC, Wollersheim H, Van’t Hof MA, de
Rooij MJ, van Langen H, et al. The development of postthrombotic
syndrome in relationship to venous reﬂux and calf muscle pump
dysfunction at 2 years after the onset of deep venous thrombosis.
J Vasc Surg 2002;35:1184-9.
517. Aschwanden M, Jeanneret C, Koller MT, Thalhammer C,
Bucher HC, Jaeger KA. Effect of prolonged treatment with
compression stockings to prevent post-thrombotic sequelae: A randomized controlled trial. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:1015-21.
518. Prandoni P, Lensing AW, Prins MH, Frulla M, Marchiori A,
Bernardi E, et al. Below-knee elastic compression stockings to prevent
the post-thrombotic syndrome: A randomized, controlled trial. Ann
Intern Med 2004;141:249-56.
519. Ginsberg JS, Hirsh J, Julian J, Vander LaandeVries M, Magier D,
MacKinnon B, et al. Prevention and treatment of postphlebitic
syndrome: Results of a 3-part study. Arch Intern Med 2001;161:2105-9.
520. Roumen-Klappe EM, den Heijer M, van Rossum J, Wollersheim H,
van der Vleuten C, Thien T, et al. Multilayer compression bandaging
in the acute phase of deep-vein thrombosis has no effect on the
development of the post-thrombotic syndrome. J Thromb Thrombolysis 2009;27:400-5.
521. Kakkos SK, Daskalopoulou SS, Daskalopoulos ME, Nicolaides AN,
Geroulakos G. Review on the value of graduated elastic compression
stockings after deep vein thrombosis. Thromb Haemost 2006;96:441-5.
522. Kearon C, Akl EA, Comerota AJ, Prandoni P, Bounameaux H,
Goldhaber SZ, et al. Antithrombotic therapy for VTE disease:
Antithrombotic Therapy and Prevention of Thrombosis, 9th ed:
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines. Chest 2012;141:e419S-94S.
523. Kahn SR, Shapiro S, Wells PS, Rodger MA, Kovacs MJ,
Anderson DR. SOX trial investigators. Compression stockings to
prevent post-thrombotic syndrome: A randomised placebo-controlled
trial. Lancet 2014;383:880-8.
524. Ginsberg JS, Magier D, Mackinnon B, Gent M, Hirsh J. Intermittent
compression units for severe post-phlebitic syndrome: A randomized
crossover study. CMAJ 1999;160:1303-6.
525. O’Donnell MJ, McRae S, Kahn SR, Julian JA, Kearon C,
Mackinnon B, et al. Evaluation of a venous-return assist device to
treat severe post-thrombotic syndrome (VENOPTS). A randomized
controlled trial. Thromb Haemost 2008;99:623-9.
526. Comerota AJ. Intermittent pneumatic compression: Physiologic and
clinical basis to improve management of venous leg ulcers. J Vasc Surg
2011;53:1121-9.
527. Berliner E, Ozbilgin B, Zarin DA. A systematic review of pneumatic
compression for treatment of chronic venous insufﬁciency and venous
ulcers. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:539-44.
528. Tsai S, Dubovoy A, Wainess R, Upchurch GR Jr, Wakeﬁeld TW,
Henke PK. Severe chronic venous insufﬁciency: Magnitude of the
problem and consequences. Ann Vasc Surg 2005;19:705-11.
529. Kahn SR, Ginsberg JS. Relationship between deep venous thrombosis
and the postthrombotic syndrome. Arch Intern Med 2004;164:
17-26.
530. Kahn SR, Shrier I, Julian JA, Ducruet T, Arsenault L, Miron MJ, et al.
Determinants and time course of the postthrombotic syndrome

O’Donnell et al 59S

after acute deep venous thrombosis. Ann Intern Med 2008;149:
698-707.
531. Arpaia G, Cimminiello C, Mastrogiacomo O, de Gaudenzi E. Efﬁcacy
of elastic compression stockings used early or after resolution of the
edema on recanalization after deep venous thrombosis: The COM.
PRE trial. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis 2007;18:131-7.
532. Partsch H. Ambulation and compression after deep vein thrombosis:
Dispelling myths. Semin Vasc Surg 2005;18:148-52.
533. Weitz JI, Eikelboom JW, Samama MM. New antithrombotic drugs:
Antithrombotic Therapy and Prevention of Thrombosis, 9th ed:
American College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guidelines. Chest 2012;141:e120S-51S.
534. Becattini C, Agnelli G, Schenone A, Eichinger S, Bucherini E,
Silingardi M. WARFASA Investigators. Aspirin for preventing the
recurrence of venous thromboembolism. N Engl J Med 2012;366:
1959-67.
535. Hull RD, Pineo GF, Brant R, Liang J, Cook R, Solymoss S, et al.
Home therapy of venous thrombosis with long-term LMWH versus
usual care: Patient satisfaction and post-thrombotic syndrome. Am J
Med 2009;122:762-9.e3.
536. Hull RD, Liang J, Townshend G. Long-term low-molecular-weight
heparin and the post-thrombotic syndrome: A systematic review.
Am J Med 2011;124:756-65.
537. Palareti G, Cosmi B, Legnani C, Tosetto A, Brusi C, Iorio A, et al. Ddimer testing to determine the duration of anticoagulation therapy.
N Engl J Med 2006;355:1780-9.
538. Siragusa S, Malato A, Saccullo G, Iorio A, Di Ianni M, Caracciolo C,
et al. Residual vein thrombosis for assessing duration of anticoagulation after unprovoked deep vein thrombosis of the lower
limbs: The extended DACUS study. Am J Hematol 2011;86:914-7.
539. Carrier M, Rodger MA, Wells PS, Righini M, Le Gal G. Residual vein
obstruction to predict the risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism
in patients with deep vein thrombosis: A systematic review and metaanalysis. J Thromb Haemost 2011;9:1119-25.
540. Enden T, Haig Y, Klow NE, Slagsvold CE, Sandvik L, Ghanima W,
et al. Long-term outcome after additional catheter-directed thrombolysis versus standard treatment for acute iliofemoral deep vein
thrombosis (the CaVenT study): A randomised controlled trial.
Lancet 2012;379:31-8.
541. Popuri RK, Vedantham S. The role of thrombolysis in the clinical
management of deep vein thrombosis. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol
2011;31:479-84.
542. Abu-Own A, Scurr JH, Coleridge Smith PD. Effect of leg elevation
on the skin microcirculation in chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc
Surg 1994;20:705-10.
543. Yang D, Vandongen YK, Stacey MC. Effect of exercise on calf muscle
pump function in patients with chronic venous disease. Br J Surg
1999;86:338-41.
544. Frykberg RG, Zgonis T, Armstrong DG, Driver VR, Giurini JM,
Kravitz SR, et al. Diabetic foot disorders. A clinical practice guideline
(2006 revision). J Foot Ankle Surg 2006;45:S1-66.
545. Poterio-Filho J, Silveira SA, Poterio GM, Fecuri RJ, de Almeida FH,
Menezes FH. The effect of walking with high-heeled shoes on the leg
venous pressure. Angiology 2006;57:424-30.
546. Tedeschi Filho W, Dezzotti NR, Joviliano EE, Moriya T,
Piccinato CE. Inﬂuence of high-heeled shoes on venous function in
young women. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:1039-44.
547. Saggini R, Bellomo RG, Iodice P, Lessiani G. Venous insufﬁciency
and foot dysmorphism: Effectiveness of visco-elastic rehabilitation
systems on veno-muscle system of the foot and of the calf. Int J
Immunopathol Pharmacol 2009;22:1-8.


