i An update to this article is included at the end

SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY GUIDELINES
The 2022 Society for Vascular Surgery, American Venous
Forum, and American Vein and Lymphatic Society
clinical practice guidelines for the management of
varicose veins of the lower extremities. Part I. Duplex
Scanning and Treatment of Superﬁcial Truncal Reﬂux
Endorsed by the Society for Vascular Medicine and the International Union
of Phlebology
Peter Gloviczki, MD,a Peter F. Lawrence, MD,b Suman M. Wasan, MD,c Mark H. Meissner, MD,d
Jose Almeida, MD,e Kellie R. Brown, MD,f Ruth L. Bush, MD, JD, MPH,g Michael Di Iorio, MD,h John Fish, MD,i
Eri Fukaya, MD,j Monika L. Gloviczki, MD, PhD,k Anil Hingorani, MD,l Arjun Jayaraj, MD,m Raghu Kolluri, MD,n
M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,o Andrea T. Obi, MD,p Kathleen J. Ozsvath, MD,q Michael J. Singh, MD,r
Satish Vayuvegula, MD,s and Harold J. Welch, MD,t Rochester, MN; Los Angeles and Stanford, CA; Raleigh, NC;
Seattle, WA; Miami, FL; Milwaukee, WI, Ann Arbor, MI; Temple, Austin, and Plano, TX; Columbus and Toledo, OH;
Scottsdale, AZ; New York and Albany, NY; Jackson, MS; Pittsburgh, PA; and Hyannis, MA

ABSTRACT
The Society for Vascular Surgery, American Venous Forum, and American Vein and Lymphatic Society collaborated to
update the 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery/American Venous Forum clinical practice guidelines and provide new
evidence-based recommendations on critical issues affecting the care of patients with varicose veins. Each recommendation is based on a recent, independent systematic review and meta-analysis of the diagnostic tests and treatments options for patients with lower extremity varicose veins. Part I of the guidelines includes evidence-based
recommendations for the evaluation of patients with CEAP (Clinical Class, Etiology, Anatomy, Pathology) class 2 varicose
vein using duplex ultrasound scanning and other diagnostic tests, open surgical treatment (ligation and stripping) vs
endovenous ablation techniques, thermal vs nonthermal ablation of the superﬁcial truncal veins, and management of
incompetent perforating veins in CEAP class 2 disease. We have also made recommendations on the concomitant vs
staged treatment of varicose tributaries using phlebectomy or liquid or foam sclerotherapy (with physician-compounded
foam or commercially prepared polidocanol endovenous microfoam) for patients undergoing ablation of incompetent
superﬁcial truncal veins. (J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2023;11:231-61.)
Keywords: Ablation; Cyanoacrylate; Endovascular; Endovenous; Guidelines; Laser; Mechanicochemical ablation; Polidocanol endovenous microfoam; Radiofrequency; Sclerotherapy, Varicose veins; Venous insufﬁciency
From the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Gonda Vascular Cen-

Research Co-operative, Philips, SurModics, and Syntactx. M.H. Murad was

ter, Mayo Clinic, Rochestera; the Division of Vascular and Endovascular Sur-

funded by the Society for Vascular Surgery to conduct systematic reviews

gery, Department of Surgery, University of California, Los Angeles, Los

and provide methodology expertise. A.T.O. is a primary investigator for preclin-

Angelesb; the Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel

ical research grants funded by Medtronic and SurModics. K.J.O. is an Intersoci-

Hill, and Rex Vascular Specialists, UNC Health, Raleighc; the University of

etal Accreditation Commission board member, a speaker/U.S. course host for

Washington, Seattled; the Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami,

Medtronic, and a speaker for Boston Scientiﬁc. P.G., P.F.L., S.M.W., M.H. Meissner,

Miamie; the Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukeef; John Sealy School of

J.A., K.B., R.L.B., M.D., E.F., A.H., A.J., S.V., and H.J.W. have no conﬂicts of interest.

Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galvestong; the South Austin

Independent peer review and oversight was provided by the members of the

Vein Center, Austinh; the Department of Medicine, Jobst Vascular Institute,

SVS Document Oversight Committee (Marc Schermerhorn, Chair, Britt Ton-

University of Toledo, Toledoi; the Division of Vascular Surgery, Stanford Univer-

nessen, Vice Chair, Mohammad Eslami, Raul Guzman, Peter Henke, Vikram

sity, Stanfordj; the Department of Internal Medicine and Gonda Vascular Cen-

Kashyap, Ahmed Kayssi, Chris Kwolek, Erika Mitchell, Patrick Muck, William

ter, Rochesterk; the NYU Brooklyn Medical Center, New Yorkl; the RANE

Robinson, Evan Ryer, Palma Shaw, Chris Smolock, Brant Ullery, Chandu

Center for Venous and Lymphatic Diseases, Jacksonm; the Heart and Vascular

Vemuri, Greg Westin, and Karen Woo).

Service, OhioHealth Riverside Methodist Hospital, Columbusn; the Evidence-

Additional material for this article may be found online at www.jvsvenous.org.

Based Practice Research Program, Robert D. and Patricia E. Kern Center for

Correspondence: Peter Gloviczki, MD, Division of Vascular and Endovascular

the Science of Health Care Delivery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester; the University

Surgery, Gonda Vascular Center, Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester,

of Michigan, Ann Arborp; the Vascular Associates, St Peters Health Partners,

MN 55905 (e-mail: gloviczki.peter@mayo.edu).

Albanyq; the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburghr; the Vein

2213-333X

Clinics of America, Planos; and the Vascular Care Group, Hyannis.t

Ó 2022 Society for Vascular Surgery Published by Elsevier Inc. and The

Author conﬂict of interest: J.F. is a paid speaker for Janssen Pharmaceuticals.
M.L.G. has been paid a consulting fee by VitasupportMD and is on their advisory

Author(s). All rights reserved.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvsv.2022.09.004

board. R.K. is a paid consultant for Abbott Laboratories, Auxetics, Avail Medsystems, Boston Scientiﬁc, Inari, Medtronic, Penumbra, Prairie Education and

231

232

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

DISCLAIMER
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) develops evidenced-based clinical practice guidelines as a resource
to assist members in the practice of vascular surgery.
The guideline recommendations contained herein are
based on a recent review of published evidence. They
reﬂect the available body of evidence, and their applicability reﬂects the limitations of that data and are subject
to reassessment and revision as new knowledge emerges.
Given these limitations, clinical practice guidelines do not
represent a statement of the standard of care, nor do they
substitute for clinician judgment or supplant patient preference or shared decision-making. The Society of Vascular
Surgery recognizes that departure from guidelines may
be warranted when, in the reasonable judgment of the
treating clinician, such course of action is indicated by
the clinical presentation of the patient, limitations of available resources, advances in knowledge or technology, or
patient preference. The reader must rely solely on their
own judgment to determine what practices and procedures, whether included in this practice guideline or not,
are appropriate for them, their patient, their institution,
or their practice.

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
GUIDELINE 1.
1.1. For patients with chronic venous disease of the lower
extremities, we recommend duplex ultrasound scanning as the diagnostic test of choice to evaluate for
venous reﬂux.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
Implementation remarks of recommendation 1.1:
1.1.a. Reﬂux is deﬁned as a minimum value >500 ms of
reversed ﬂow in the superﬁcial truncal veins (great
saphenous vein, small saphenous vein, anterior
accessory great saphenous vein, posterior accessory
great saphenous vein) and in the tibial, deep femoral,
and perforating veins. A minimum value >1 second
of reversed ﬂow is diagnostic of reﬂux in the common femoral, femoral, and popliteal veins.
1.1.b. Axial reﬂux is deﬁned as uninterrupted retrograde
venous ﬂow from the groin to the calf. Retrograde
ﬂow can occur in the superﬁcial or deep veins,
with or without perforating veins. Junctional reﬂux
will be limited to the saphenofemoral or saphenopopliteal junction. Segmental reﬂux occurs in a
portion of a superﬁcial or deep truncal vein.
1.1.c. A deﬁnition of “pathologic” perforating veins in patients with varicose veins (CEAP [Clinical Class, Etiology, Anatomy, Pathology] clinical class C2) includes
those with an outward ﬂow duration of $500 ms
and a diameter of $3.5 mm on duplex ultrasound.
1.2.1. We recommend that evaluation of reﬂux with
duplex ultrasound be performed in an Intersocietal
Accreditation Commissione or American College of

Radiologyeaccredited vascular laboratory by a
credentialed ultrasonographer, with the patient
standing whenever possible. A sitting or reverse Trendelenburg position can be used if the patient cannot
stand.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.2.2. We recommend that for evaluation of reﬂux with
duplex ultrasound, we use either a Valsalva maneuver or distal augmentation to assess the common
femoral vein and saphenofemoral junction and
distal augmentation with either manual compression or cuff deﬂation for evaluation of more distal
segments. Superﬁcial reﬂux must be traced to its
source, including the saphenous junctions, truncal
or perforating veins, or pelvic origin varicose veins.
The study should be interpreted by a physician
trained in venous duplex ultrasound interpretation.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.3.1. We recommend that a complete duplex ultrasound
scanning examination for venous reﬂux in the lower
extremities should include transverse grayscale images without and with transducer compression of
the common femoral, proximal, mid, and distal
femoral and popliteal veins, saphenofemoral junction, and great and small saphenous veins.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.3.2. We recommend that a complete duplex ultrasound scanning examination for venous reﬂux in
the lower extremities should include measurement
of the spectral Doppler waveform using calipers.
Reﬂux at baseline and in response to a Valsalva maneuver or distal augmentation in the common
femoral vein and at the saphenofemoral junction
and in response to distal augmentation in the
mid-femoral and popliteal vein, the great saphenous vein at the proximal thigh and knee, the anterior accessory great saphenous vein and small
saphenous vein, and at saphenopopliteal junction
or proximal calf should be documented.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.3.3. We recommend that a complete duplex ultrasound
scanning examination for venous reﬂux in the lower
extremities should include diameter measurements in patients with the leg in the dependent position, from the anterior to the posterior wall, at the
saphenofemoral junction, in the great saphenous
vein at the proximal thigh and at the knee, in the
anterior accessory great saphenous vein, and in
the small saphenous vein at the saphenopopliteal
junction or proximal calf. Images of both normal
and abnormal ﬁndings should be documented in
the records of the patient.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement
1.4. We recommend the use of the 2020 upgraded CEAP
classiﬁcation system for chronic venous disorders.

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

233

Volume 11, Number 2

The clinical or basic CEAP classiﬁcation can be used
for clinical practice, and the full CEAP classiﬁcation
system should be used for clinical research.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice statement

GUIDELINE 2.
2.1.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the great or small saphenous
vein, who are candidates for intervention, we
recommend superﬁcial venous intervention over
long-term compression stockings.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2.1.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the anterior accessory or posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, who are candidates for intervention, we suggest superﬁcial
venous intervention over compression stockings.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.1.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the superﬁcial truncal veins, we suggest compression therapy for primary treatment if
the patient’s ambulatory status and underlying
medical conditions warrant a conservative approach
or, if the patient prefers conservative treatment, for
either a trial period or deﬁnitive management.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.2.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the great saphenous vein, who are
candidates for intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over high ligation
and stripping of the great saphenous vein because
of less postprocedure pain and morbidity and an
earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2.2.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the small saphenous vein, who are
candidates for intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over ligation and
stripping of the small saphenous vein because of
less postprocedure pain and morbidity and an
earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.2.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the anterior accessory or posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, who are candidates
for intervention, we suggest treatment with endovenous ablation, with additional phlebectomy, if
needed, over ligation and stripping of the accessory
great saphenous vein because of less postprocedure
pain and morbidity and an earlier return to regular
activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)

2.3.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the great or small saphenous vein,
we recommend treatment with ligation and stripping of the saphenous vein if technology or expertise
in endovenous ablation is not available or if the
venous anatomy precludes endovenous treatment.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2.3.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the anterior accessory or the posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, we suggest treatment with ligation and stripping of the accessory
great saphenous vein, with additional phlebectomy, if needed, if technology or expertise in endovenous ablations is not available or if the venous
anatomy precludes endovenous treatment.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.4.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the great saphenous vein who place
a high priority on the long-term outcomes of treatment (quality of life and recurrence), we suggest
treatment with endovenous laser ablation, radiofrequency ablation, or high ligation and stripping over
physician-compounded ultrasound-guided foam
sclerotherapy.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak) quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2.4.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the small saphenous vein who place
a high priority on the long-term outcomes of treatment (quality of life and recurrence), we suggest
treatment with laser ablation, radiofrequency ablation, or ligation and stripping from the knee to the
upper or mid-calf over physician-compounded ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak) quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
2.4.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins and
axial reﬂux in the anterior accessory or posterior
accessory great saphenous vein who place a high
priority on the long-term outcomes of treatment
(quality of life and recurrence), we suggest treatment of the reﬂuxing superﬁcial trunk with endovenous laser ablation, radiofrequency ablation, or
high ligation and stripping, with additional phlebectomy, if needed, over physician-compounded
ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)

GUIDELINE 3.
3.1.1. For patients with symptomatic axial reﬂux of the great
saphenous vein, we recommend both thermal and
nonthermal ablation from the groin to below the
knee, depending on the available expertise of the
treating physician and the preference of the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: B (moderate)

234

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

3.1.2. For patients with symptomatic axial reﬂux of the
small saphenous vein, we recommend both thermal and nonthermal ablation from the knee to
the upper or mid-calf, depending on the available
expertise of the treating physician and the preference of the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
3.1.3. For patients with symptomatic axial reﬂux of the anterior accessory or posterior accessory great saphenous
vein, we suggest either thermal or nonthermal ablation, with additional phlebectomy, if needed,
depending on the available expertise of the treating
physician and the preference of the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)

GUIDELINE 4.
4.1.1. For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class C2) who
have signiﬁcant, symptomatic axial reﬂux of the great
or small saphenous vein, we recommend against
treatment of incompetent perforating veins
concomitant with initial ablation of the superﬁcial
truncal veins.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
4.1.2. For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class C2) who
have signiﬁcant, symptomatic axial reﬂux of the
anterior accessory or posterior accessory great
saphenous vein, we suggest against treatment of
incompetent perforating veins concomitant with
initial ablation of the superﬁcial truncal veins.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
4.2. For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class C2) and
persistent or recurrent symptoms after previous
complete ablation of incompetent superﬁcial truncal veins, we suggest treatment of perforating vein
incompetence if it is the origin of the symptomatic
varicose tributaries.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)

GUIDELINE 5.
5.1.1. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the great or
small saphenous vein and associated varicosities, we
recommend ablation of the reﬂuxing venous trunk
and concomitant phlebectomy or ultrasoundguided foam sclerotherapy of the varicosities with
physician-compounded foam or commercial polidocanol endovenous microfoam.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.1.2. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the anterior
accessory or posterior accessory great saphenous
vein, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing venous
trunk
and
concomitant
phlebectomy
or
ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy of the

varicosities with physician-compounded foam or
commercial polidocanol endovenous microfoam.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.2.1. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the great or
small saphenous vein, we suggest ablation of the
reﬂuxing venous trunk and staged phlebectomy or
ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy of the varicosities only if anatomic or medical reasons present. We
suggest shared decision-making with the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.2.2. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the anterior accessory great saphenous vein or posterior
accessory great saphenous vein, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing venous trunk and staged phlebectomy or ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy
of the varicosities only if anatomic or medical reasons present. We suggest shared decision-making
with the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of evidence: C (low to very low)
5.3. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the major
superﬁcial venous trunks and associated varicosities
undergoing initial ablation alone, we recommend
that patients be followed up for $3 months to assess
the need for staged phlebectomy or ultrasoundguided sclerotherapy for persistent or recurrent
symptoms. Longer follow-up is recommended for
patients with recurrent symptoms and for patients
who participate in clinical trials.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good clinical practice
During the past two decades, the evaluation and minimally invasive endovenous management of varicose veins
and more advanced forms of lower extremity chronic
venous insufﬁciency have progressed. The number of
endovenous procedures, including thermal and
nonthermal interventions, has increased rapidly,1-3 and
>90% of these have been performed in an ofﬁce setting
as outpatient procedures.4 In the United States, between
2005 and 2014, the total annual claims for venous procedures in the Medicare fee-for-service beneﬁciaries
increased from 95,206 to 332,244, for a compound annual
growth rate of 15%.4 With the report of the 5-year followup data from multiple, prospective randomized
controlled trials (RCTs)5-13 and the 10-year follow-up of
one of the RCTs,14 the long-term effectiveness of different
procedures is now available to help physicians make
informed decisions on treatment recommendations. The
widely accepted and frequently used CEAP (Clinical presentation, Etiology, Anatomy, Pathophysiology) classiﬁcation and reporting standards were recently updated,15
and a multiple society Delphi consensus document was
published on the appropriate use criteria for the management of chronic venous disease (CVD).16 The assessment
of early and late results using patient-reported outcomes

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

235

Volume 11, Number 2

has also improved, and the use of generic and diseasespeciﬁc quality of life (QoL) instruments has become the
reference standard for outcomes assessment.17-19
In 2011, the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) and the
American Venous Forum (AVF) published the ﬁrst
evidence-based guidelines on “the care of patients with
varicose veins and associated chronic venous diseases.”20
With the improvement of imaging studies and minimally
invasive technology, the method has also improved,
enabling the reporting of guidelines that incorporate
new indications and technology. Several new venous clinical practice guidelines were published during the past
decade, with the recommendations updated as new evidence emerged.21-27 To collect the latest evidence on the
evaluation and management of patients with CEAP class
C2 varicose veins, the American Vein and Lymphatic Society joined the SVS and AVF and commissioned an independent health science group to perform a new
systematic review and meta-analysis.19 All recommendations in part I of the present clinical practice guideline
were determined from the scientiﬁc evidence provided
by the systematic review and meta-analysis.

METHODS
All treatment recommendations are in accordance with
the GRADE (grading of recommendations, assessment,
development, and evaluation) method.28,29 This approach
has been outlined in previous SVS guideline documents
and includes two components.28 The ﬁrst component is
to determine the quality of the evidence underlying the
recommendation (A, high; B, moderate; C, low to very
low), and the second is to determine the strength of the
recommendation (1, strong; 2, weak).
The ﬁrst component of the GRADE system is to determine the quality of the evidence (A-C) as a reﬂection of
the degree of conﬁdence in the estimated treatment effect. Rating the quality of the evidence (also termed the
certainty of evidence) as A, B, or C starts with the study
design. Because they are less subject to bias, RCTs will
have the highest level of evidence, with other sources of
evidence, such as observational studies, ranked lower in
the hierarchy. This rating can be downgraded when (1)
the RCT has serious methodologic limitations such as
inadequate blinding, allocation concealment, or loss to
follow-up; (2) the results were inconsistent among the
RCTs; (3) the RCTs were indirectly relevant (ie, did not
directly apply to the patients, interventions, or outcomes
of interest); (4) the results were imprecise owing to the
small number of studies and events, or wide conﬁdence
intervals for both beneﬁts and harm were present; and
(5) a reporting bias was likely to be present.28,29 For grade
A recommendations, conﬁdence in the treatment effect is
high, and further research would be unlikely to change
the estimate of effect. In contrast, for grade C recommendations, further research would be very likely to affect the
estimate of the effect.

The second component of GRADE is to determine the
strength of a recommendation, which includes an assessment of the relative balance between the potential beneﬁts
and harm of an intervention, patient values and preferences, and other contextual factors. The implications of a
grade 1, or strong recommendation, are that the potential
beneﬁts of an intervention clearly outweigh the potential
harms and burdens; and virtually all well-informed patients
would choose such an intervention, and the physician can
conﬁdently recommend the treatment without a detailed
knowledge of the underlying data. In contrast, for grade 2
or weak recommendations, the beneﬁts and risks will be
more balanced or uncertain; thus, different patients could
choose different treatment options according to their
values and preference. The physician must be familiar
with the underlying data before making such a recommendation and should counsel patients appropriately. The present guidelines have used the word “recommend” for grade
1 or strong recommendations and the word “suggest” for
grade 2 or weak recommendations. It should also be recognized that, in most cases, guidelines will be developed from
the results of studies of average patients and that a deviation from the guidelines could be necessary under unusual
circumstances.
The committee also made several speciﬁc technical
remarks to facilitate adoption and implementation of
the new updated guidelines and several ungraded
good practice statements.30 Because a new systematic
review of these remarks and good practice statements
could not be performed, these were based on the committee’s clinical expertise, knowledge of the literature,
and studies that had not met the criteria to be included
in the systematic review. Some of these statements
were adopted from the 2011 guidelines, if new information was not available.20 The present document used
the terminology established in the updates of the
CEAP classiﬁcations,15,31 the Vein Glossary,32 the VEINTERM document,33 and “the 2020 appropriate use
criteria for chronic lower extremity venous disease”16
(Supplementary Table I, online only).
Evidence to decision framework. Evidence to decision
framework tables that addressed the decision criteria
were constructed for each recommendation.34 These
tables address the balance of the beneﬁts and harm,
certainty of the evidence, patient values, feasibility,
and acceptability of the recommended actions
(Supplementary Tables II-VI, online only). Patient preferences regarding the relative importance of different
aspects of their care vary greatly and must be considered when evaluating treatment approaches. In a
pre-evaluation survey of 111 patients from the United
Kingdom, most of the patients (56%) were not concerned about missing work, and the importance of
postoperative discomfort and risk of recurrence varied.35 Because 80% of the patients reported that their

236

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

treatment decision would be inﬂuenced by the
opinion of their treating physician, it is important that
physician preferences be recognized and that the risks
and beneﬁts of all treatment options are discussed.
Another study, which had only considered the early
postoperative period, found that out-of-pocket expenses were the most important factor for many patients, followed in order by postoperative discomfort,
risk of adverse events, time to return to normal activity,
number of skin punctures required for tumescent
anesthesia, and number of required treatment visits.36
Most patients with CEAP class C2 symptomatic varicose
veins will recognize the need for long-term follow-up
vein care. The panel considered mortality, venous thromboembolism, anaphylactic shock, or stroke as extremely
rare but the most severe outcomes, followed by less severe outcomes such as wound complications, infection,
allergy, and varicose vein recurrence.
The recommendations in the present guidelines were
based on several assumptions. First, patient-centered outcomes such as QoL and recurrent varicose veins are more
important than surrogate outcomes such as anatomic
closure rates. Signiﬁcant heterogeneity in the reporting
of recurrence was found in previous systematic reviews,
with trials variously reporting overall limb recurrence vs
site-speciﬁc recurrence and clinical recurrence vs ultrasound recurrence.37 Because the clinical relevance of ultrasound imaged recurrence is unclear, such data
should be interpreted with caution. Second, although
short-term outcomes such as postoperative pain, perioperative complications, and return to work and usual activities are important for many patients, superﬁcial venous
disease is a chronic disease, and long-term patient outcomes should be prioritized over the short-term clinical
outcomes. The committee elected to prioritize the outcomes in the following order: (1) QoL at 5 years; (2) recurrence and need for reintervention at 5 years; (3) major
and minor perioperative adverse events; (4) postoperative
pain and return to work and usual activities; (5) anatomic
closure at 5 years; and (6) cost of the procedure. The
guideline committee and the systematic review did not
include a formal cost-effectiveness analysis because
almost all reported and reviewed studies had been performed in the United Kingdom and other European countries, where the cost and reimbursement system differs
from that in the United States.19 Therefore, the costeffectiveness judgments in the evidence to decision tables were usually labeled as unknown.
Evidence synthesis. The guideline panel for the present
document (part I) prioritized ﬁve critical questions that are
most relevant to the current management of patients with
varicose veins. The questions were as follows: (1) the diagnostic utility of duplex ultrasound (DU) in adults with varicose veins (class C2-C6); (2) high ligation and surgical
stripping vs any endovenous ablation technique for

patients with varicose veins and axial incompetence of the
great saphenous vein (GSV) or small saphenous vein (SSV);
(3) thermal vs nonthermal endovenous ablation technique
outcomes for patients with varicose veins and axial
incompetence of the GSV or SSV; (4) incompetent perforating vein ablation vs no perforator ablation for patients
with simple varicose veins (CEAP class C2) with or without
axial incompetence of the GSV or SSV; and (5) treatment of
varicose tributaries with phlebectomy or sclerotherapy,
concomitant with, or staged after, endovenous ablation of
the incompetent GSV or SSV.
The Mayo Clinic Evidence-Based Practice Center was
asked to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis
of the latest data available to address these questions.19
For the review, comprehensive searches were conducted
through December 7, 2020, using the MEDLINE, Embase,
Scopus, the National Library of Medicine (PubMed), and
the Cochrane databases. All recommendations for these
clinical practice guidelines were based on this systematic
review and meta-analysis, which have been reported
together with these guidelines.19 Additional major studies,
RCTs, and Cochrane and other systematic reviews and
meta-analyses, reported on-line or in print before submission of these guidelines, were also reviewed by the writing
committee.

GUIDELINES
Guideline 1. Diagnostic evaluation of vein
incompetence
Guideline 1.1: For patients with CVD of the lower extremities, we recommend DU scanning as the diagnostic test of choice to evaluate for venous reﬂux.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: B (moderate)
Rationale. DU is a noninvasive diagnostic test that is
safe, sensitive, speciﬁc, and cost-effective to evaluate
vein incompetence in patients with varicose veins. The
test is objective and reproducible but requires technical training and experience to perform a thorough
and accurate study. DU also requires physician expertise to correctly interpret a DU study. DU was recommended as the diagnostic test of choice for patients
with CVD in previous SVS/AVF guidelines and in a
consensus document from the International Union of
Phlebology.20,38,39 The 2016 Medicare Evidence Development and Coverage Advisory Committee panel40
and an earlier systematic review,41 however, did not
ﬁnd sufﬁcient evidence to support or refute the recommendations to use DU as the ﬁrst-line diagnostic
test to evaluate CVD.
Evidence. Combining the data from two prospective
comparative studies,42,43 a recent systematic review
found that using DU scanning for the evaluation of CVD
changed the management for 10% to 25% of the patients,

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

237

Volume 11, Number 2

who had undergone hand-held continuous wave Doppler
(HHD) ultrasound (Table I).19 Mercer et al42 compared the
HHD ultrasound ﬁndings with those of DU and found that
the HHD sensitivity to detect reﬂux was only 73% at the
saphenofemoral junction (SFJ), 77% at the saphenopopliteal junction (SPJ), and 51% for thigh perforator veins.
Thus, treatment determined using HHD ultrasound
would have left residual sites of reﬂux in 24% of the cases.
Rautio et al45 observed that the HHD ultrasound sensitivity was 56% at the SFJ and only 23% at the SPJ and
concluded that the DU ﬁndings would modify the treatment decision for 9.1%. Darke et al44 found better HHD
ultrasound sensitivity at the SFJ (95%) but concluded that
HHD ultrasound was not satisfactory for the evaluation of
reﬂux at the SPJ. Another study by Wills et al47 found HHD
ultrasound sensitivity of 71% at the SFJ and concluded
that 29% of the limbs would have had sites of reﬂux left
untreated without a DU evaluation. Dhillon et al46 recently
compared HHD ultrasound with point-of-care portable
color Doppler ultrasound in assessing venous reﬂux.
Although portable color Doppler ultrasound had had
marginally greater sensitivity than HHD ultrasound and a
better negative predictive value above the knee, both
tests had had an w30% negative predictive value, which is
inadequate for the exclusion of signiﬁcant reﬂux. Similar
to several other studies and reviews,48,49 we recommend
routine DU scanning for deﬁnitive evaluation of patients
for venous reﬂux. The relevant PICO (patients, intervention,
comparator, outcome) data of ﬁve studies are summarized in Table I.42-46
Of the other imaging modalities, descending contrast
venography will be useful for some patients to diagnose
reﬂux in the superﬁcial veins.50 Ascending venography
can provide additional information on the anatomy of
the superﬁcial system. Also, in some cases, it could help
intraoperatively to allow for complete ablation of the superﬁcial veins.51 However, in the era of high-resolution DU
imaging and other less invasive diagnostic imaging
studies, contrast venography is rarely used today for the
preoperative evaluation of patients with varicose veins.
Contrast venography, intravascular ultrasound, computed
tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and magnetic
resonance venography have been reserved for the investigation of the anatomy and function of the deep venous
system.52-54 Based on evidence of the systematic review
and additional data from the literature, including the recommendations of the 2020 appropriate use criteria of
multiple vascular societies,16 the panel strongly supports
DU scanning as the current reference standard for the
evaluation of reﬂux in patients with CVD.
Implementation remarks for guideline 1.1
1.1.a. Reﬂux is deﬁned as a minimum value >500 ms
of reversed ﬂow in the superﬁcial truncal veins (GSV,
SSV, anterior accessory GSV [AAGSV], posterior accessory GSV [PAGSV]) and the tibial, deep femoral, and
perforating veins. A minimum value >1 second of

reversed ﬂow is diagnostic of reﬂux in the common
femoral, femoral, and popliteal veins.
Van Bemmelen et al55 studied the duration of reﬂux
in the femoral, popliteal, and tibial veins in 32 healthy
patients in the supine and upright position using a Valsalva maneuver, proximal limb compression, and
release of distal limb compression. The distal cuff
deﬂation method was the most accurate and reproducible method to measure the duration of reﬂux.
The reﬂux times for the standing patients
were <500 ms for 95% of the patients.55 The data reported by Labropoulos et al,56 obtained using DU evaluation of 80 limbs of 40 healthy normal volunteers and
60 limbs of 45 patients with CVD, showed that a minimum value for abnormally reversed venous ﬂow
(reﬂux) in the GSV and SSV and tibial and deep
femoral veins of >500 ms should be adopted as standard for the degree of reﬂux. A similar 500-ms value
was also proposed and accepted as the minimum
value for patients with incompetence of other superﬁcial truncal veins, including the AAGSV.57 A minimum
value for signiﬁcant reﬂux in the femoral and popliteal
veins of 1 second has also been deﬁned in multiple
previous guidelines and consensus documents,20,27,38,39
and our writing committee has also accepted it as a
best practice statement.
1.1.b. Axial reﬂux is deﬁned as uninterrupted retrograde venous ﬂow from the groin to the calf. Retrograde ﬂow can be in the superﬁcial or deep veins,
with or without perforating veins. Junctional reﬂux
will be limited to the SFJ or SPJ. Segmental reﬂux occurs in a portion of a superﬁcial or deep truncal vein.
To deﬁne axial, junctional, and segmental reﬂux, we
adopted the terminology deﬁned in the updates of the
CEAP classiﬁcation,15,31 the Vein Glossary,32 and the
VEIN-TERM document33 (Supplementary Table I, online
only). “Complete axial reﬂux in a symptomatic patient is
pathognomonic, but junctional reﬂux alone is an indication for ablation. Conversely, a competent junction may
be associated with an incompetent, pathologic GSV
distal to the terminal valve and the source of varicosity
in such patients can be either pelvic vein incompetence
or an incompetent thigh perforating vein.”
1.1.c. A deﬁnition of “pathologic” perforating veins in
patients with varicose veins (CEAP clinical class C2) includes those with an outward ﬂow duration of
$500 ms and a diameter of $3.5 mm on DU.
For patients with CVD (CEAP class C2-C6), the minimal
values suggested for clinically signiﬁcant incompetent
perforating veins (IPVs) were 350 ms and 500 ms.56,58,59
Most guidelines and consensus documents have agreed,
however, to deﬁne perforating vein incompetence as
>500-ms outward ﬂow during calf relaxation or release
after distal compression.20,38,39 Labropoulos et al60 reported 96% speciﬁcity and 73% sensitivity for DU scanning in predicting for incompetence of the perforating

238

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

veins in patients with a vein diameter of 3.9 mm. In their
study, one third of the incompetent perforator veins
(IPVs) were <3.9 mm in size. Sandri et al,61 however, reported that >90% of the IPVs were >3.5 mm in size.
The SVS/AVF venous guidelines deﬁned “pathologic”
perforating veins as those with an outward ﬂow of
>500 ms, with a diameter of $3.5 mm, located beneath
a healed or open venous ulcer (for patients with CEAP
class C5-C6).20,23,38 For C4 patients, IPVs should be
beneath areas of impending skin breakdown or areas
of skin vulnerability.38 These recommendations remain
current.
Guideline 1.2.
1.2.1. We recommend that evaluation of reﬂux with DU
be performed in an Intersocietal Accreditation
Commissione or American College of Radiologye
accredited vascular laboratory by a credentialed ultrasonographer, with the patient standing whenever possible.
A sitting or reverse Trendelenburg position can be used if
the patient cannot stand.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice
statement
1.2.2. We recommend that for evaluation of reﬂux
with DU, either a Valsalva maneuver or distal
augmentation should be used to assess the common
femoral vein and SFJ and distal augmentation should
be used with either manual compression or cuff deﬂation for evaluation of more distal segments. Superﬁcial reﬂux must be traced to its source, including the
saphenous junction, truncal or perforating veins, or
pelvic origin varicose veins. The study should be interpreted by a physician trained in venous DU
interpretation.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice
statement
Rationale and evidence. The technique of correct DU
scanning to investigate venous reﬂux has been previously
described in detail.56,59,62 A signiﬁcant part of the test
should be performed with the patient in the upright
position to determine the degree of reﬂux and venous
diameter.56 Labropoulos et al56 reported the DU results
for patients examined in the supine and standing positions. DU of 37 vein segments showed reﬂux of >500 ms
with the patients in the supine position. However, when
the study was repeated with the patient standing, 22
segments
(59%)
showed
nonsigniﬁcant
reﬂux
of <500 ms.56 The investigators concluded that “standing
allows more deﬁnitive closure of competent valves.” To
investigate reﬂux, manual compression of the thigh and
calf is suggested to assess reﬂux. In addition, both the
Valsalva technique and rapid cuff deﬂation have been
recommended.59 Masuda et al63 found that reﬂux in the
upper thigh veinsdcommon femoral, femoral, deep
femoral, and GSVs was similarly demonstrated in both
normal and symptomatic states using cuff deﬂation and

the Valsalva technique. To standardize the evaluation of
reﬂux, the panel recommends the generally adopted
guidelines of using a Valsalva maneuver or distal
augmentation to assess the common femoral vein and
SFJ and either manual compression or standardized cuff
deﬂation distal to the segment of interest to assess the
more distal veins.56,62
Guideline 1.3.
1.3.1. We recommend that a complete DU scanning
examination for venous reﬂux in the lower extremities
includes transverse grayscale images without and with
transducer compression of the common femoral vein,
proximal, mid, and distal femoral veins, popliteal veins,
the SFJ, and the GSV and SSV.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice
statement
1.3.2. We recommend that a complete DU scanning
examination for venous reﬂux in the lower extremities
includes measurement of the spectral Doppler waveform using calipers. Reﬂux at baseline and in response
to Valsalva or distal augmentation in the common
femoral vein and at the SFJ should be document.
Reﬂux in response to distal augmentation in the midfemoral and popliteal veins, GSV at the proximal thigh
and knee, in the AAGSV and SSV at the SPJ or proximal
calf should also be documented.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice
statement
1.3.3. We recommend that a complete DU scanning
examination for venous reﬂux in the lower extremities
includes diameter measurements with the patient’s
leg in the dependent position, from the anterior to posterior wall, at the SFJ, in the GSV at the proximal thigh
and knee, in the AAGSV, and in the SSV at the SPJ or
proximal calf. Images of both normal and abnormal
ﬁndings should be documented in the patient’s
records.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice
statement
Rationale. To use DU scanning for evaluation and
follow-up of patients, appropriate documentation of
both normal and abnormal ﬁndings in the patient’s
records is mandatory. A complete DU scanning examination for CVD should include visualization, compressibility, venous ﬂow with and without augmentation,
measurement of duration of reﬂux, and measurements
of the vein diameter.64 The vein diameter should be
acquired in the dependent position as a transverse,
anterior wall to posterior wall measurement. Spectral
Doppler waveforms with the extremity or extremities in
a dependent position demonstrating the baseline ﬂow
and response to distal augmentation must be recorded.
If present, the reﬂux duration of retrograde ﬂow must
be measured with calipers in the following segments:
common femoral vein, SFJ, GSV at the proximal thigh

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

239

Volume 11, Number 2

and knee, femoral vein at the mid-thigh, popliteal vein,
AAGSV and PAGSV (when identiﬁed), and SSV at the
SPJ or at the mid-calf, if SPJ is not identiﬁed.65 Measurements of reﬂux in the calf veins is optional. Axial
reﬂux is deﬁned as uninterrupted retrograde venous
ﬂow from the groin to the calf, either to the upper calf
or to the ankle. Superﬁcial reﬂux will be conﬁned to the
superﬁcial venous system, deep reﬂux to the deep
venous system, and combined reﬂux can involve any
combination of the three main venous systems (superﬁcial, deep, perforating). Some investigators have suggested documenting the extent (length) of the
incompetent veins and the distance of the incompetent
truncal vein from the skin.66
Evidence. Several studies have investigated the association of the vein diameter with reﬂux, CEAP clinical
class, and outcome of intervention for patients with
varicose veins.67-74 Kim et al67 evaluated 198 limbs of
99 patients and found that the diameter of the GSV in
the lower thigh with reﬂux >0.5 seconds with rapid
cuff deﬂation in standing patients was signiﬁcantly
larger than that of the GSVs without reﬂux (4.7 mm vs
4.2 mm; P < .001). The cutoff value for the GSV
diameter that was associated with reﬂux in their study
was 5 mm (P ¼ .025).67 Another study from Korea
investigated 777 patients and found 5.05 mm and
3.5 mm to be the best positive predictive value for
reﬂux in the GSV and SSV, respectively.70 Others,
however, found that ablation of small (<5 mm)
symptomatic GSVs provided clinical success in 83% of
the limbs at 3 months, with signiﬁcant improvement
in the venous clinical severity score (VCSS; median
change, 2; interquartile range, 3 to 1).64
A retrospective study of 728 limbs of 531 patients with
CVD found a positive correlation between the vein diameter and reﬂux duration measured using DU and CEAP
clinical class, VCSS, and HASTI (heaviness, achiness,
swelling, throbbing, itching) score.75 Several other studies
have provided evidence that the superﬁcial vein diameters correlate with the CEAP class and severity of CVD.71-73
In a prospective observational study of 330 patients with
symptomatic varicose vein, the vein diameter had a significant association with the VCSS (P ¼ .041); however, no other
QoL or symptom measures were related to the vein
diameter.76 Mendoza et al71 found that measurements at
the proximal thigh, 15 cm distal to the groin, correlated
better with reﬂux and were more sensitive and speciﬁc
than were measurements at the SFJ. In a study of 152
patients with varicose veins, a GSV diameter of 5.880 mm
measured 5 cm distal to the SFJ using computed tomography with the patient in the supine position was the cutoff
value for the prediction of reﬂux (sensitivity, 91.4%; speciﬁcity, 81.8%).77 The investigators concluded, however, that
the vein diameter alone should not be used as an absolute
reference for venous reﬂux.

A high level of evidence on treatment decisions made using the vein diameter alone, however, is still lacking.
Analyzing the data from 242 patients who had participated
in a RCT, Attaran et al68 recently reported a poor correlation
between the GSV diameter and baseline VCSS (R ¼ 0.004;
P ¼ .95) and between the GSV diameter and VCSS improvement for #36 months of follow-up (R ¼ 0.04; P ¼ .55). Gibson
et al,69 in a study of 91 patients, also found a weak correlation between an increasing GSV diameter and VCSS and
no correlation between the GSV diameter and QoL scores,
including the CIVIQ (chronic venous insufﬁciency QoL
questionnaire) and VEINES for QoL and symptoms. These
investigators concluded that using the GSV diameter as
the sole criterion for determining the medical necessity
for treatment of GSV reﬂux is inappropriate.69 To establish
the minimal value for the diameter of incompetent superﬁcial truncal veins that could be used as a criterion for ablation, it is important to collect more data from patients for
whom DU was performed with the leg in the dependent
position, measured in the GSV at the proximal third of the
thigh.
Guideline 1.4.
We recommend the use of the 2020 upgraded CEAP
classiﬁcation of chronic venous disorders. The clinical
or basic CEAP classiﬁcation can be used for clinical
practice, and the full CEAP classiﬁcation system
should be used for clinical research.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good practice
statement
Rationale and evidence. Evaluation of the patients
should include documentation of the clinical class of
the chronic venous disorder. The panel recommends using the recently updated 2020 CEAP classiﬁcation system and reporting standards as a good practice
statement (Table II).15 Each clinical class (C0-C6) can be
further characterized with a subscript letter, according to
the presence or absence of symptoms (S, symptomatic;
A, asymptomatic; eg, C2A or C2S). Symptoms include
aching, pain, tightness, skin irritation, heaviness, muscle
cramps, and other complaints attributable to venous
dysfunction.31 The basic CEAP classiﬁcation can be used
for clinical practice, and the full CEAP classiﬁcation system should be used for clinical research. For patients
with C2 disease (varicose veins), the most recent CEAP
clinical classiﬁcation requires a different diagnostic and
treatment strategy for recurrent varicose veins. Thus,
such patients should now be identiﬁed with the
subscript “r” for recurrence (ie, C2r).15
Guideline 2. High ligation and surgical stripping vs
endovenous ablation
Guideline 2.1.
2.1.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the GSV or SSV who are candidates
for intervention, we recommend superﬁcial venous
intervention over long-term compression stockings.

240

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: B (moderate)
2.1.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the AAGSV or PAGSV who are candidates for intervention, we suggest superﬁcial venous
intervention over compression stockings.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
2.1.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the superﬁcial truncal veins, we suggest compression therapy for primary treatment if the
patient’s ambulatory status and underlying medical
conditions warrant a conservative approach, or if the
patient prefers conservative treatment, for either a
trial period or as deﬁnitive management.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. Compression garments of various strengths,
in addition to a healthy lifestyle, weight loss, exercise, and
the avoidance of prolonged standing or sitting, have long
been recommended to patients with varicose veins to
decrease the pain, discomfort, and swelling caused by
the congestion due to reﬂuxing and dilated superﬁcial
veins.20 Compression has been shown to decrease
acute symptoms78; however, no evidence has shown that
long-term compression is either curative or can arrest or
reverse the progression of CVD. An arbitrary 3-month
period of compression treatment before an intervention, often used by insurance companies before procedural authorization, also has not been supported by the
scientiﬁc evidence.
Evidence. A recent Cochrane review studied the effectiveness of compression stocking for patients with varicose veins.79 Data on 1021 patients with C2 to C4
disease from 13 RCTs were analyzed. A variety of
compression stocking ranging from 10 to 50 mm Hg had
been used in the studies, and none had reported the QoL
measures used to assess the outcomes. No side effects
were reported. The review concluded that “there is
insufﬁcient high-certainty evidence to determine
whether or not compression stockings are effective as
the sole and initial treatment of varicose veins in people
without healed or active venous ulceration, or whether
any type of stocking is superior to any other type.”79
The clinical outcomes at 2 years after conservative treatment (lifestyle modiﬁcations and compression stockings)
vs surgery (high ligation and saphenous stripping) were
reported by Michaels et al80 in the randomized REACTIVE (randomised clinical trial, observational study and
assessment of cost-effectiveness of the treatment of varicose veins) trial of 246 patients with varicose veins. At
2 years, the patients who had undergone surgery to
ablate the superﬁcial varicose veins had had signiﬁcant
QoL beneﬁt based on the SF-6D (short-form six domains)

and the EQ-5D scores.80 The improvement in symptoms
and venous anatomy was also signiﬁcant. In the U.K.
study reported by Ratcliffe et al,81 surgical treatment of
varicose veins offered a modest health beneﬁt for relatively little additional National Health Service cost relative to conservative treatment.
An additional randomized trial of 153 patients randomized to surgery or compression stockings found surgery
to be associated with signiﬁcant decreases in the VCSS
and health-related QoL compared with compression
therapy.82 Others have also found that most patients
will beneﬁt from surgery even after compression therapy
has failed.83 In addition, in the United Kingdom, the conservative management of varicose veins was not found to
be cost-effective.84,85 The consistency of the data supports a strong recommendation for surgical intervention
instead of compressions stockings alone for those who
are candidates for surgery and are willing to undergo
an intervention to treat symptomatic incompetent superﬁcial truncal veins and varicose tributaries. No evidence is available to support the beneﬁt of a trial of
3 months of compression therapy before offering surgical
or endovenous intervention for most patients.
Thus, the panel adopted the previous SVS/AVF guidelines20 and recommends intervention over compression
stocking alone for those who are candidates for a procedure and willing to undergo an intervention to treat
symptomatic incompetent superﬁcial truncal veins and
varicose tributaries. The patient’s ambulatory status and
any underlying medical conditions must be considered
in making a treatment recommendation. The decisionmaking should be shared, and patients might elect to
undergo a trial with compression or choose deﬁnitive
treatment using compression alone.
Guideline 2.2.
2.2.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the GSV who are candidates for
intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over high ligation and stripping of the
GSV because of less postprocedure pain and morbidity
and an earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: B (moderate)
2.2.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the SSV who are candidates for
intervention, we recommend treatment with endovenous ablation over ligation and stripping of the SSV
because of less postprocedure pain and morbidity
and an earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
2.2.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the AAGSV or PAGSV who are candidates for intervention, we suggest treatment with
endovenous ablation, with additional phlebectomy, if

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

241

Volume 11, Number 2

Table I. PICO (patients, intervention, comparison, outcome) data of studies conﬁrming beneﬁt of duplex ultrasound (DU) in
evaluation of venous reﬂux
Investigator

Patients/limbs

Intervention

Comparison

Outcome

Study design

1997

100 Limbs; 73
patients with
varicose
veins

DU

HHD

HHD sensitivity: GSV reﬂux,
95%; SSV reﬂux, 90%; HHD
speciﬁcity: GSV reﬂux, 100%;
SSV reﬂux, 93%; HHD was
inadequate to plan
treatment of SSV

Single-center, crosssectional prospective
study

Mercer et al,39 1998

89 Limbs; 61
patients with
primary
varicose
veins

DU

HHD

HHD sensitivity: 73% at SFJ;
77% at SPJ; 51% for TPs;
surgery planned using HHD
alone would have left
residual reﬂux sites in 24%

Single-center, crosssectional prospective
study

Rautio et al,43 2002

62 Limbs; 49
primary
varicose
veins

DU

HHD

HHD sensitivity at SPJ, 64%;
accuracy, 71%; DU changed
treatment plan for 10% of
limbs

Single-center, crosssectional prospective
study

Rautio et al,45 2002

142 Limbs; 111
patients with
primary
varicose
veins

DU

HHD

HHD sensitivity: GSV reﬂux,
56%; SSV reﬂux, 23%; HHD
speciﬁcity: GSV reﬂux, 97%;
SSV reﬂux, 96%; DU modiﬁed
treatment plan in 9.1%

Single-center, crosssectional prospective
study

Dhillon et al,46 2020

241 Patients
with venous
reﬂux
symptoms

DU

HHD and
point-of-care
PCD

HHD sensitivity: AK, 68%; BK,
94%; HHD speciﬁcity: AK,
50%; BK, 12%; PCD sensitivity:
AK, 69%; BK, 74%; PCD
speciﬁcity: AK, 79%; BK, 58%;
HHD and PCD were both
inadequate alone for
evaluation and exclusion of
signiﬁcant venous reﬂux

Single-center, crosssectional prospective
study

44

Darke et al,

AK, Above the knee; BK, below the knee; GSV, great saphenous vein; HHD, hand-held continuous-wave Doppler ultrasound; PCD, portable color
Doppler ultrasound; SFJ, saphenofemoral junction; SPJ, saphenopopliteal junction; SSV, small saphenous vein; TPs, thigh perforators.

needed, over ligation and stripping of the accessory
GSV because of less early pain and morbidity and an
earlier return to regular activity.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. All the treatment modalities discussed in
this section can be used to successfully treat symptomatic reﬂux of the GSV (Fig 1). Surgical treatment includes high ligation of the GSV or SSV at the SFJ or at the
SPJ, respectively, and invagination stripping of the distal
portion of the vein with the patient under general
anesthesia or tumescent local anesthesia. Contemporary
surgical and endovenous procedures are universally
performed with DU assistance. Endovenous interventions, including thermal and nonthermal ablations, are minimally invasive percutaneous procedures
that can be performed in an outpatient setting. Thermal
ablation can be performed using laser technology with
different types and wavelengths of laser ﬁbers (endovenous laser ablation [EVLA])86,87 or can be performed
via radiofrequency ablation (RFA)64,88,89 using local
tumescent anesthesia. The most frequently used

devices in the United States include, among others,
the VenaCure 1470-nm laser system (Angiodynamics,
Waterlooville, UK) and the Closurefast RFA system
(Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN).
Nonthermal (and nontumescent) ablation methods
include endovenous cyanoacrylate closure (CAC; VenaSeal; Medtronic),12,90,91 the VariClose Vein Sealing System
(Biolas, Ankara, Turkey),92,93 and the MOCA (mechanicochemical ablation) procedure, using the ClariVein device
(MeritMedical, South Jordan UT).94-97 Ultrasound-guided
foam sclerotherapy (UGFS) can also be an effective
method to close superﬁcial truncal and varicose veins using either physician-prepared sodium tetradecyl sulfate
or polidocanol foam made at the bedside using the Tessari technique,98,99 or commercially prepared polidocanol endovenous microfoam (PEM; Varithena; Boston
Scientiﬁc, Marlborough, MA).100 The Tessari technique is
used to prepare foam at the bed side, using a threeway stopcock and two syringes, mixing air with the liquid
sclerosing solution to create foam.98 Varicose tributaries
and tortuous superﬁcial truncal veins such as the accessory saphenous veins can be removed under local or
tumescent anesthesia using ambulatory phlebectomy

242

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Table II. Updated Clinical, Etiology, Anatomy and Pathology (CEAP) classiﬁcation of chronic venous disorders
Class

Description
a

Clinical
C0

No visible or palpable signs of venous
disease

C1

Telangiectasias or reticular veins

C2

Varicose veins

C2r

Recurrent varicose veins

C3

Edema

C4

Changes in skin and subcutaneous tissue
due to chronic venous insufﬁciency

C4a

Pigmentation or eczema

C4b

Lipodermatosclerosis or atrophie blanche

C4c

Corona phlebectatica

C5

Healed venous ulcer

C6

Active venous ulcer

C6r

Recurrent active venous ulcer

Etiology
Ec

Congenital

Ep

Primary

Es

Secondary (post-thrombotic)

En

No venous etiology identiﬁed

Anatomy
As

Superﬁcial veins

Ap

Perforator veins

Ad

Deep veins

An

No venous location identiﬁed

Fig 1. Anatomy of great saphenous vein (GSV) and its
tributaries. a., Artery; n., nerve; Superf., superﬁcial; v., vein.
Used with permission of Mayo Foundation for Education
and Research, all rights reserved.

Pathophysiology
Pr

Reﬂux

Po

Obstruction

Adapted, with permission, from Lurie et al.15
a
Each clinical class can be subcharacterized by a subscript letter
indicating the presence (symptomatic [s]) or absence (asymptomatic
[a]) of symptoms attributable to venous disease; symptoms can
include ache, pain, tightness, skin irritation, heaviness, muscle cramps,
and other complaints attributable to venous dysfunction.

interventions, and generic and disease-speciﬁc QoL. The
decision to recommend minimally invasive endovenous
ofﬁce procedures over contemporary high ligation and
saphenous stripping in this guideline was determined
by the differences in early outcomes, including periprocedural pain and discomfort, need for analgesia medications, early minor adverse events, and early QoL
measures, and an earlier return to regular activities.

with vein hooks or forceps through multiple small stab
wounds (mini- or microphlebectomy). Saphenous veinsparing operations (ASVAL [ambulatory selective varicose
vein ablation under local anesthesia], CHIVA [Cure conservatrice et Hemodynamique de l’Insufﬁsance Veineuse
en Ambulatoire (conservative and hemodynamic treatment of venous insufﬁciency in the ofﬁce)]) and cryostripping were not analyzed in our systematic review.
For evidence of the effectiveness of these procedures,
the readers are referred to previous guidelines.20,27
The important outcomes measures used to compare
the procedures performed in all studies included
anatomic closure, complications, time to return to
normal activity, recurrence, need for secondary

Evidence. A systematic review by Farah et al19 analyzed
the data from 30 RCTs, reported in 44 studies,5-9,13,99,101-136
and the data from 16 observational studies11,137-151 that
had compared the results of surgical treatment with
those of endovenous ablation using any of the techniques. The systematic review found that high ligation
and saphenous stripping was associated with a lower
likelihood of being pain free (relative risk [RR], 0.39; 95%
conﬁdence interval [CI], 0.29-0.54)137,145 and an increased
need for analgesia (RR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.17-2.86)138,140 than
EVLA.19 In the CLASS (comparison of laser, surgery, and
foam sclerotherapy) RCT, which compared foam, laser,
and open surgical treatments, Brittenden et al99 reported signiﬁcantly fewer early adverse events after laser
ablation than after surgery (7% vs 1%; P < .001). Successful ablation of the saphenous vein, however, was less

Pr,o

Reﬂux and obstruction

Pn

No venous pathophysiology identiﬁable

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

243

Volume 11, Number 2

common in the foam group than in the open surgery
group (P < .001). At 6 weeks, patients who had undergone surgery had had lower SF-36 (short-form 36-item)
scores, indicating worse generic QoL than that of those
who had undergone laser treatment. The differences
were signiﬁcant for bodily pain, vitality, and role limitations due to emotional and physical health. These differences between groups were no longer present at
6 months.99 In the systematic review, no difference was
found in the disease-speciﬁc QoL scores when high
ligation and saphenous stripping was compared with
RFA at 1 month.19,114,131
In the EVOLVeS (evaluation of cinacalcet hydrochloride
therapy to lower cardiovascular events) RCT, the time to
return to normal activities was signiﬁcantly better after
RFA than after high ligation and saphenous stripping
(mean, 1.15 days vs 3.89 days; P ¼.02). In the RFA group,
80.5% of the patients had returned to their routine activities of daily living within 1 day compared with 46.9% of
the patients in the high ligation and saphenous stripping
group (P < .01).113 In a recent RCT that had compared
high ligation and saphenous stripping with CAC ablation
of the GSV in 126 patients, the closure rate was 100% in
both groups at 3 months. However, the postoperative
pain and ecchymosis grades were signiﬁcantly lower in
the CAC group.217
Both open surgical stripping and the currently available
endovenous procedures are durable procedures. The 5year results from the CLASS study conﬁrmed the equally
improved disease-speciﬁc QoL in both the surgery and
the laser groups and both were superior to the results after physician-compounded foam.10 Using a probabilistic
cost-effectiveness model iteration, their results favored
laser ablation over foam ablation. When the main
outcome measure was the occlusion rate of the treated
GSV, the 5-year results were similar after high ligation
and saphenous stripping and EVLA (96% vs 89%) but
signiﬁcantly worse after UGFS (51%; P < .001).10 A metaanalysis of nine RCTs by Kheirelseid et al37 showed that
at 5 years RFA and EVLA are as effective as surgery for
treating saphenous vein insufﬁciency. The study also
concluded that the number of patients available for
analysis was too small to draw any deﬁnite conclusions.37
Similarly, an Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
systematic review found either no difference or insufﬁcient data to support differences in important longterm patient outcomes between thermal ablation and
surgery.152
Guideline 2.3.
2.3.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the GSV or SSV, we recommend
treatment with ligation and stripping of the saphenous vein if the technology or expertise in endovenous
ablation is not available or the venous anatomy precludes endovenous treatment.

Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: B (moderate)
2.3.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the AAGSV or PAGSV, we suggest
treatment with ligation and stripping of the accessory
GSV, with additional phlebectomy, if needed, if the
technology or expertise in endovenous ablation is not
available or the venous anatomy precludes endovenous treatment.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale and evidence. New technology might not be
available in some health care systems or the devices can
be too expensive for patients or facilities when no reimbursement for the procedure will be provided by thirdparty payors. In addition, aneurysmal dilation of the
GSV close to the SFJ, a subcutaneous location of a
truncal superﬁcial vein above the saphenous fascia and
close to the skin, and tortuosity of the GSV or SSV (Fig 2)
are relative anatomic contraindications to some endovenous procedures.
Although the systematic review supporting these
guidelines found a twofold greater 5-year risk of recurrent varicosities after high ligation and saphenous stripping compared with RFA (RR, 2.00; 95% CI, 1.22-3.27),19
the ﬁndings was based on a single study with an intermediate risk of bias.7 Other reviews, based largely on
the same data, found no differences in 5-year recurrence
between high ligation and saphenous stripping, RFA,
and EVLA.37 Overall, contemporary high ligation and
stripping, performed under tumescent anesthesia, had
excellent mid- and long-term results in multiple randomized studies,6-11 and the committee strongly recommends high ligation and saphenous stripping, if the
technology or expertise is not available for an endovascular procedure or the anatomy favors surgery for patients
who are appropriate candidates for intervention.
Guideline 2.4.
2.4.1. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the GSV who place a high priority
on the long-term outcomes of treatment (QoL and
recurrence), we suggest treatment with endovenous
laser ablation, RFA, or high ligation and stripping
over physician-compounded UGFS.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak) quality of
evidence: B (moderate)
2.4.2. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the SSV who place a high priority
on long-term outcomes of treatment (QoL and recurrence), we suggest treatment with laser ablation,
RFA, or ligation and stripping from the knee to the upper or mid-calf over physician-compounded UGFS.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak) quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)

244

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

2.4.3. For patients with symptomatic varicose veins
and axial reﬂux in the AAGSV or PAGSV who place a
high priority on long-term outcomes of treatment
(QoL and recurrence), we suggest treatment of the
reﬂuxing superﬁcial trunk with endovenous laser ablation, RFA, or high ligation and stripping, with additional phlebectomy, if needed, over physiciancompounded ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale and evidence. This recommendation applies
only to physician-compounded UGFS when using it for
ablation of a superﬁcial truncal vein and does not
address the value of UGFS in the management of tributary varicosities. The recommendation is based largely on
evidence of a higher rate of recurrent varicosity, higher
risk of recurrent intervention, lower rate of occlusion of
the treated truncal vein, and lower disease-speciﬁc QoL
at 5 years after UGFS compared with high ligation and
saphenous stripping or thermal ablation.7,8,10 Diseasespeciﬁc QoL at 5 years was also better for both high
ligation and saphenous stripping (RR, 2.60; 95%
CI, 3.99 to 1.22; P < .001) and EVLA (RR, 2.86; 95%
CI, 4.49 to 1.22; P < .001) than for UGFS.10 Data on the
long-term effectiveness of commercial PEM are not yet
available, although the results of one RCT100 and several
retrospective studies153-155 are encouraging.
Cost-effectiveness. High ligation and saphenous stripping, EVLA, and RFA are all effective treatment strategies
for symptomatic varicose veins arising from axial venous
reﬂux. However, both reimbursement and out-of-pocket
costs to the patient can vary signiﬁcantly, depending on
insurance authorization. The out-of-pocket costs could
be the most important consideration for many patients.36 Therefore, the treating physician must be aware
of the costs of the different treatment options and
counsel their patients accordingly.
Because cost-effectiveness will vary with the setting
and local reimbursement system, and most data on
cost have come from outside the United States, our supporting systematic review did not evaluate costeffectiveness. In British studies, physician-compounded
UGFS had had the lowest initial costs, although this
was partially offset by the long-term costs of reintervention and lower QoL.85,156 High ligation and saphenous
stripping in the inpatient setting was the most expensive
strategy. At a threshold of £20,000 ($28,000) per qualityadjusted life-year in the United Kingdom, EVLA
ranked ﬁrst, followed by RFA, UGFS, high ligation and
saphenous stripping, and conservative care in terms of
cost-effectiveness.85 For those patients for whom the
out-of-pocket costs are a dominant consideration,
the treating physician must be aware of the costs of
the different treatment options and counsel the patient

Fig 2. Anatomy of small saphenous vein (SSV) and its
tributaries. n., Nerve; v., vein. Used with permission of Mayo
Foundation for Education and Research, all rights
reserved.

accordingly. A systematic review of the costeffectiveness of varicose vein treatment in the United
Kingdom found that physician-compounded UGFS had
had a signiﬁcantly greater reintervention rate compared
with the other procedures, which had all had similar
reintervention rates. The cost of EVLA vs UGFS was
£16,966 ($23,700) per quality-adjusted life-year, supporting EVLA as the most cost-effective procedure. RFA was
a close second, and MOCA, UGFS, CAC, conservative
care, and high ligation and stripping were not costeffective at the current prices in the U.K. National Health
Service.85 A Canadian cost-analysis study found that RFA
would be w$110 to $220 more expensive than open
surgery but with fewer major and minor early complications (low level of evidence).157
Small saphenous vein. The SSV is one of the important
superﬁcial truncal veins that requires treatment if symptomatic axial reﬂux is document by DU (Fig 2). Data on
the durability of endovenous treatment of the SSV,
however, remain limited. The systematic review by Farah
et al19 included two RCTs, reported in three publications,
that had compared the outcomes after high ligation and
saphenous stripping vs EVLA of the SSV.117,125,126 High
ligation and saphenous stripping was associated with
lower anatomic closure rates and an increased incidence
of minor sensory disturbance at 1 month. At 2 years, the
anatomic closure rate was still superior after EVLA but

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

245

Volume 11, Number 2

with no signiﬁcant differences in clinical recurrence,
sensory disturbance, or any QoL scores between the
groups.117 The use of nonthermal techniques for the
treatment of the SSV appear promising, because
the proximity of the sural nerve can result in neurologic
complications after
open surgery
or
thermal
ablations.158,159 CAC was used to treat SSV insufﬁciency in
163 limbs of 128 patients in a study by Cho et al.160 The
closure rate at 2 years was 96.3%. No major complications, including sural nerve injury, were noted. In a
retrospective study, the results of high ligation and
stripping of the SSV were compared with those after the
MOCA procedure to treat isolated SSV reﬂux.161 The
recurrence rate at 18 months was similar in the two
groups. The MOCA procedure, performed in 60 limbs,
had resulted in less pain on the ﬁrst postoperative day
and the patients had returned to work earlier than those
who had undergone open surgery. Leg paresthesia had
occurred in 3.4% after open surgery and 0% after the
MOCA procedure.161 Other investigators had observed
more saphenous neuritis after thermal ablation.162
A systematic review by Boersma et al163 of 49 studies
reporting on ﬁve RCTs and 44 cohort studies found a
58%, 98.5% and 97.1% anatomic success rate after surgery,
EVLA, and RFA, respectively, and 63.3% success after
physician-compounded UGFS at a mean follow-up of
12.5 months (range, 0.5-48 months). The incidence of
neurologic complications was most frequent after surgery
(19.6%) and thermal ablation (EVLA, 4.8%; RFA, 9.7%).
These pooled data had considerable heterogeneity. The
study supported the use of thermal ablation (EVLA or
RFA) for SSV treatment over surgery. A Cochrane review
of three RCTs also found that at a moderate to low level
of evidence, EVLA had resulted in a higher closure rate
at 6 weeks and lower recurrence at 1 year than open surgery. The quality of evidence was low to suggest the use of
physician-compounded UGFS over surgery. Additional
RCTs with longer follow-up are needed to deﬁne the
optimal treatment of SSV ablation. However, the lack of
neurologic injury after nonthermal ablation is promising
and appears to be of considerable clinical beneﬁt.
AAGSV and PAGSV. The AAGSV and PAGSV are superﬁcial truncal veins that join the GSV just distal to the SFJ
(Fig 1). They could require treatment if axial incompetence has been conﬁrmed in patients with symptomatic
varicose veins. The PAGSV is rarely of clinical signiﬁcance164,165; however, an incompetent AAGSV alone, or
combined with GSV reﬂux, frequently contributes to varicosities and also to more advanced chronic venous insufﬁciency. An incompetent AAGSV has been a source of
recurrence after GSV ablation and also carries morbidity
similar to that of a reﬂuxing GSV.166-168 The incidence of
superﬁcial thrombosis in one study was signiﬁcantly higher
in the AAGSV than in the GSV (6.41% vs 2.17%; P < .05).167
Endovenous therapies for the treatment of symptomatic

AAGSVs demonstrated early outcomes similar to those of
patients with symptomatic GSV reﬂux.57,169 For standalone
ablations, the revised VCSSs were similar between the
groups before and after the procedure; however, the CIVIQ20 scores had returned to the preintervention levels for
patients who had undergone standalone ablation of the
AAGSV at 6 months, suggesting that patients with a
symptomatic AAGSV treated with ablation will also require
treatment of the associated tributaries (varicosities) to
achieve outcomes similar to those for patients who had
undergone GSV ablation.57
Guideline 3. Thermal ablation vs nonthermal ablation
of saphenous veins
Guideline 3.1.
3.1.1. For patients with symptomatic axial reﬂux of
the GSV, we recommend both thermal and
nonthermal ablation from the groin to below the
knee, depending on the available expertise of the
treating physician and the preference of the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: B (moderate)
3.1.2. For patients with symptomatic axial reﬂux of
the SSV, we recommend both thermal and
nonthermal ablation from the knee to the upper or
mid-calf, depending on the available expertise of the
treating physician and the preference of the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
3.1.3. For patients with symptomatic axial reﬂux of
the AAGSV or PAGSV, we suggest either thermal or
nonthermal ablation, with additional phlebectomy, if
needed, depending on the available expertise of the
treating physician and the preference of the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. Both thermal and nonthermal ablation
techniques are minimally invasive, percutaneous ofﬁcebased procedures. Thermal ablation (EVLA86,87;
RFA64,88,89) requires tumescent local anesthesia, which
can cause pain and discomfort during the procedure.
Nonthermal ablations include UGFS with physiciancompounded foam using the Tessari technique98,99 or
the use of PEM (Varithena).100 Other nonthermal ablation
techniques include CAC12,90,91 using the VenaSeal system
(Medtronic) or the Turkish glue kit (VariClose Vein Sealing
System; Biolas) and mechanicochemical ablation, such
as the MOCA procedure.94-97 All nonthermal ablations
can be performed without the need for tumescent
anesthesia. The heterogeneity of nonthermal techniques
does not allow for a direct comparison of all thermal and
all nonthermal ablations.
Evidence. To compare the outcomes of thermal and
nonthermal techniques,95,170 a systematic review19
analyzed data from 16 RCTs, reported in 27

246

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

publications7,8,10,12,92,93,99,122,133-136,171-182 and data from 11
comparative observational studies.11,150,151,183-190 The review found signiﬁcantly higher visual analog scale for
pain scores perioperatively for EVLA than for CAC or
UGFS, using physician-compounded foam.172,177,185 The
early QoL scores in some studies were also better for
UGFS99 and the MOCA procedure95 than for EVLA. At
1 year, however, EVLA was associated with higher
anatomic closure rates than UGFS (RR, 1.23; 95% CI, 1.111.37; I2 ¼ 0.00%).133,177,185 Compared with physiciancompounded UGFS, EVLA and RFA were also associated with a lower risk of recurrence (RR, 0.18; 95% CI,
0.05-0.59; and RR, 0.06; 95% CI, 0.01-0.44, respectively). In
the CLASS study, UGFS using physician-compounded
foam had resulted in a lower anatomic closure rate
(RR, 2.91; 95% CI, 1.89-4.49) and an increased risk of reinterventions at 1 and 5 years.10 At 5 years, the diseasespeciﬁc QoL was better for EVLA than for UGFS.10 The
scores for the generic QoL measures were similar.5
A British RCT, reported by Lattimer et al176 found that
physician-compounded UGFS was 3.15 times less expensive than EVLA (£230.24 vs £724.72) with comparable
effectiveness. However, 56% (vs 6%) of the patients who
had undergone UGFS had required additional treatment. Although the potential for reintervention was
clearly higher owing the higher rates of recanalization after UGFS, when performed with physician-compounded
foam, this technique remains an important tool because
of the much lower cost and easy availability, compared
with other catheter-based techniques. Long-term results
and comparative studies with PEM are needed.
Early adverse events were reported to be more frequent
after EVLA or RFA than after CAC (Table III).92,188 Some
clinical advantages of CAC compared with thermal techniques for #1 year, have been demonstrated in several
reports.92,172,179,188 However, a prospective study by Ay
et al150 found that the QoL (CIVIQ-14) was better for a
group of 70 patients who had undergone RFA than for
the 85 patients who had been treated with CAC (P <
.05). However, RFA at 1 year was associated with an
increased risk of recurrent incompetence compared
with CAC (RR, 3.22; 95% CI, 1.07-9.64; I2 ¼ 0.00%).179,188
In a systematic review, Vos et al192 reported that the
pooled anatomic success for MOCA and CAC was
94.7% and 94.8% at 6 months and 94.1% and 89.0% at
1 year, respectively. In a network meta-analysis, Kolluri
et al193 compared the early outcomes with VenaSeal
(Medtronic) with those after EVLA, RFA, MOCA, sclerotherapy, and open surgery. At 6 months, VenaSeal had
had the highest probability of anatomic success, ranked
ﬁrst in the reduction of the postoperative pain score from
baseline (P ¼ .690), and had had the lowest incidence of
adverse events (P ¼ .650). The 3-year occlusion rate after
CAC treatment was 94.7% (95% CI, 87.9%-100%) in a prospective study by Almeida et al.90 An allergic reaction to
cyanoacrylate is rare but has been reported,194 and those

with previous hypersensitivity reactions to cyanoacrylates
and patients with acute superﬁcial thrombophlebitis or
sepsis should not be treated with CAC.
The 5-year extension study of the VeClose (VenaSeal
Sapheon Closure System Pivotal Study) trial was recently
reported by Morrison et al.12 Freedom from recanalization at 5 years in the randomized CAC and RFA groups
was 91.4% and 85.2%, respectively, demonstrating the
noninferiority of CAC compared with RFA. Both groups
showed sustained improvement in the QoL scores.
The MOCA procedure was also evaluated in several
comparative studies, and results #3 years have been
reported.95,96,171,174,175,191 In a RCT, Bootun et al171
compared the intraprocedural pain scores for 60 patients who had undergone mechanicochemical ablation
(ClariVein) with those of 59 patients who had undergone
RFA (Covidien Veneﬁt; Medtronic).171 Both maximum and
mean pain scores were signiﬁcantly lower in the
mechanicochemical ablation group compared with the
RFA group (19.3 mm vs 34.5 mm; P < .001; 13.4 mm vs
24.4 mm; P < .001). In the MARADONA (mechanochemical endovenous ablation to radiofrequency ablation in
the treatment of primary great saphenous vein incompetence) RCT, with 213 randomized patients, mechanochemical ablation resulted in less postoperative pain
but more hyperpigmentation compared with RFA.174
More anatomic failures had been reported after the
MOCA procedure than after RFA; however, the patients
in both groups had had similar QoL scores at 1 and
2 years. In the LAMA (randomized controlled trial of
endovenous laser ablation versus mechanochemical
ablation with ClariVein in the management of superﬁcial
venous incompetence) trial, 150 patients had been randomized to EVLA or the MOCA procedure. Similar low
intraprocedural pain scores (RR, 22; 95% CI, 9-44; vs RR,
15; 95% CI, 9-29; P ¼ 0.210) were reported after both procedures. At 1 year, the anatomic occlusion rates after
EVLA were signiﬁcantly better than those after MOCA
(91% vs 77%; P ¼ .020). Both EVLA and MOCA were highly
efﬁcacious at 2 years and both had signiﬁcantly
improved disease severity, symptoms, and QoL. In
another RCT by Tawﬁk et al,182 100 patients had been
randomized to laser therapy or the MOCA procedure.
MOCA was associated with better VCSSs, less frequent
phlebitis, and a shorter time to return to work. The 3year results of an RCT, evaluating the MOCA procedure
vs thermal ablation (EVLA or RFA), were reported by
Vahaaho et al.191 A total of 117 patients were treated,
and the occlusion rate at 3 years was signiﬁcantly lower
with MOCA than with either EVLA or RFA (82% vs
100%; P ¼ .005). A GSV >7 mm in diameter had had an
increased recanalization rate after MOCA.
In another study, EVLA was associated with a lower
recurrent varicosity scale score than UGFS using
physician-compounded foam, and RFA was associated
with a lower risk of reintervention compared with UGFS

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

247

Volume 11, Number 2

Table III. PICO (patients, intervention, comparison, outcome) data of studies comparing outcomes of thermal vs
nonthermal ablations of reﬂuxing superﬁcial truncal veins
Investigator

Population

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Morrison
et al,180 2015;
Morrison
et al,179 2017

222 Patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C4)

RFA of GSV
(n ¼ 114)

CAC of GSV
(n ¼ 108)

No difference in
intraprocedural and
24-hour pain scores;
more ecchymosis after
RFA (P < .01); at
1 month, 100%
occlusion after CAC
and 87% occlusion
after RFA; at 1 year, no
difference in
occlusion,
recanalization,
symptoms, or QoL

RCT (VeClose)

Morrison et al,12
2020

89 Patients with
60-month
follow-up

RFA (n ¼ 33)

CAC (n ¼ 47;
(þ9 roll-in
patients)

At 5 years both
treatments effective;
noninferiority of CAC
vs RFA demonstrated

RCT (VeClose)

Koramaz
et al,186 2017

339 Patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C5)

EVLA (n ¼ 189)

CACa (n ¼ 150)

At 12 months, occlusion
rate: 98.6% vs 97.3%
(P ¼ .65)

Retrospective
comparative study

Yang et al,190
2019

335 Patients with
varicose veins;
476 veins
treated (GSV,
403; SSV, 54;
AAGSV, 17;
perforator, 2)

RFA (338 veins)

CAC (148 veins)

Same early closure rates
(100% vs 99%); more
postoperative
phlebitis after RFA
(16% vs 5%; P < .05); 3
infections from glue
clumps needed
excision and drainage

Retrospective
cohort study

Bozkurt et al,92
2016

310 Patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C4)

EVLA (n ¼ 156)

CACa (n ¼ 154)

Periprocedural pain less
with CAC (P < .001);
ecchymosis at 3 days
less with CAC; at
6 months and 1 year,
no difference in QoL or
closure rates

Prospective
nonrandomized,
comparative trial

Calik et al,172
2019

412 Limbs in 400
patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C4)

EVLA (n ¼ 204)

CACa (n ¼ 208)

Periprocedural pain less
after CAC (P < .001);
induration,
ecchymosis, and
paresthesia rates
higher with EVLA (P <
.001) at 12 months; QoL
and closure rates
similar (96.6% vs
94.1%)

Prospective
nonrandomized,
comparative study

Ovali et al,188
2019

244 Patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C4)

RFA of GSV
(n ¼ 128)

CACa of GSV
(n ¼ 116)

Technical success 100%
in both groups; early
severe pain,
ecchymosis, and
discomfort
signiﬁcantly greater
after RFA (P < .05);
occlusion rates and
QoL similar at 1 year

Nonrandomized
retrospective,
comparative study

(Continued on next page)

248

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Table III. Continued.
Investigator

Population

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Vahaaho et al,191
2021

132 Patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C4)
randomized
(intention to
treat)

EVLA (n ¼ 34);
RFA (n ¼ 33);
3-year followup, 31 and 25

MOCA (n ¼ 65);
3-year followup, 50)

At 3 years, closure rate
signiﬁcantly lower for
MOCA than EVLA or
RFA (82% vs 100%; P <
.005)

RCT

Lane et al,175

170 Patients with
varicose veins
(GSV or SSV)

RFA (n ¼ 83)

MOCA (n ¼ 87)

Intraprocedural pain
(maximum and
average pain scores
signiﬁcantly less after
MOCA; P < .003); no
difference between
groups in return to
work or normal
activities; at 1 and
6 months, no
difference in QoL
between groups

Multicenter RCT

Mohamed
et al,95 2021

150 Patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C6)

EVLA (n ¼ 75)

MOCA (n ¼ 75)

Similar intraprocedural
pain scores (P ¼ .021);
at 1 year, occlusion rate
after EVLA was 91%
(63/69) vs 77% (53/69)
after MOCA (P ¼ .020);
at 1 year, both groups
had similar, signiﬁcant
improvement in VCSS
and AVVQ

RCT

Lawaetz et al,7
2017

500 Patients (580
limbs) with
varicose veins
(GSV)

EVLA (n ¼ 125);
RFA (n ¼ 125);
HL&S
(n ¼ 125)

UGFS, with
physiciancompounded
foam (3%
polidocanol);
n ¼ 125)

At 5 years, all treatment
modalities were
efﬁcacious and
resulted in similar
improvement in VCSS
and QoL; signiﬁcantly
greater incidence of
recanalization of
treated vein and
reoperations after
UGFS with physiciancompounded foam

RCT

Vahaaho et al,8
2015

196 Patients with
varicose veins
(166 in 5-year
follow-up); GSV

EVLA (n ¼ 57);
HL&S
(n ¼ 50)

UGFS with
physiciancompounded
foam (1%
polidocanol;
1% or 3%
sodium
tetradecyl
sulfate; n ¼ 59)

At 5 years, UGFS had
lowest occlusion rate
without additional
intervention (41% vs
89% vs 96%; P < .001);
AVSS scores were
similar

RCT

Brittenden
et al,99 2014;
Brittenden
et al,10 2019

798 Patients with
varicose veins
randomized,
(GSV or SSV), C2C6); at 5 years,
595 patients
studied

EVLA (n ¼ 212);
open surgery
(n ¼ 289)

UGFS with
physiciancompounded
foam (1% or
3% sodium
tetradecyl
sulfate; n ¼
292)

Ablation rates at 6 weeks
and 6 months lower
after UGFS; at 5 years,
disease-speciﬁc QoL
was worse after UGFS;
cost-effectiveness
model iteration
favored EVLA

Randomized trial

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

249

Volume 11, Number 2

Table III. Continued.
Investigator

Population

Intervention

Comparison

Outcomes

Study design

Biemans
et al,133 2013

240 Patients with
varicose veins
(GSV; C2-C5)

EVLA (n ¼ 78);
HL&S (n ¼ 68)

UGFS with
physiciancompounded
foam (n ¼ 77)

At 1 year, EVLA was
superior to UGFS in
GSV closure (P < .001);
no differences in QoL

RCT

Lattimer et al,177
2013

100 Patients with
varicose veins
(GSV; C2-C6)

EVLA (n ¼ 50)

UGFS with
physiciancompounded
foam (n ¼ 50)

Costs and
postprocedure pain
were signiﬁcantly less
and treatment
duration and time to
recovery signiﬁcantly
shorter after UGFS;
after UGFS, 56%
required additional
treatment vs 6% with
EVLA

RCT

Rasmussen
et al,134 2011;
Rasmussen
et al,122 2013

580 Limbs of 500
patients with
varicose veins
(GSV; C2-C4)

EVLA (n ¼ 125);
RFA (n ¼ 125);
HL&S
(n ¼ 124)

UGFS with
physiciancompounded
foam (n ¼ 124)

Postintervention pain
score signiﬁcantly less
after UGFS and RFA; at
1 year, GSV closure was
signiﬁcantly lower
after UGFS; QoL
improved in all groups;
at 3 years, incidence of
recanalization and
reoperation after UGFS
was greater; QoL
improved in all groups

RCT

Gonzalez-Zeh
et al,185 2008

98 Patients with
varicose veins
(GSV; C2-C6)

EVLA (n ¼ 45)

UGFS with
physiciancompounded
foam (n ¼ 50;
n ¼ 53)

Procedure-associated
pain worse after EVLA
(P < .0001); at 1 year,
GSV closure higher
after EVLA (93% vs
77%; P < .046); VCSS
improved in both
groups (P < .0001)

Nonrandomized
prospective trial

Deak,153 2022

1070 Patients with
varicose veins
(C2-C6; C2, n ¼
469)

EVLA (n ¼ 550)

UGSF with PEM

Reﬂux eliminated in
93.5% (514/550) after
PEM and 92.8% (482/
520) after EVLA; 3-year
follow-up; no
neurologic or cardiac
adverse events after
PEM

Retrospective
cohort study

AAGSV, Anterior accessory great saphenous vein; AVSS, Aberdeen Varicose Vein Symptom Severity; AVVQ, Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire;
CAC, cyanoacrylate closure; EVLA, endovenous laser ablation; GSV, great saphenous vein; HL&S, high ligation and saphenous stripping; MOCA,
mechanicochemical ablation; PEM, polidocanol endovenous microfoam; QoL, quality of life; RCT, randomized controlled trial; RFA, radiofrequency
ablation; SSV, small saphenous vein; UGSF, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy; VCSS, venous clinical severity score.
a
N-butyl cyanoacrylate: VariClose vein sealing system (Biolas, Ankara, Turkey).

(RR, 0.44; 95% CI, 0.27-0.71).7 No signiﬁcant differences
were found for other outcomes such as deep vein thrombosis, recurrent varicosity, recurrent ulceration, edema,
pigmentation, or recurrent ulceration.
In a recent retrospective study of 1070 patients with
CVD (CEAP class C2-C6), including 470 C2 patients,
PEM ablation (Varithena;, BTG International Ltd, London,
UK) was compared with EVLA using the VenaCure 1470nm laser system (Angiodynamics, Waterlooville, UK).
Reﬂux was eliminated in 93.5% (514 of 550) and 92.8%

(482 of 520) of the PEM- and EVLA-treated patients during an average follow-up of 3 years. No neurologic or cardiac adverse events had occurred after PEM treatment.
PEM appears to be a promising new technology; however, the only RCT currently available had compared endovenous microfoam with placebo to conﬁrm its safety and
early efﬁcacy.100
For treatment of the incompetent below-the-knee
segment of the GSV, a systematic review by Sussman
et al195 found that thermal ablation had had a lower

250

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

incidence of saphenous nerve injury compared with high
ligation and saphenous stripping. Endovenous below-the
knee thermal ablations in some studies were used with
good results,196 and an RCT had failed to show any nerve
injury caused by below-the-knee EVLA.197 The recent results with nonthermal ablation, however, appeared
promising because no saphenous or sural nerve injury
had been reported by Jimenez et al154 after ablation of
49 below-the-knee GSVs and 23 SSVs using commercially prepared endovenous microfoam.
In summary, both thermal and nonthermal ablation
techniques are safe and effective; however, we cannot
recommend one technique over the others. All techniques have resulted in improved QoL scores and good
clinical effectiveness at 3 to 5 years after the procedure.
The early beneﬁt of nontumescent, nonthermal procedures over thermal ablation include less pain and discomfort; however, the decreased anatomic closure rates for
the MOCA procedure at 3 years and for UGFS with
physician-compounded foam at 5 years have made
them less durable treatment compared with thermal
ablation. It should be noted, however, that CAC was noninferior to thermal ablation at 5 years in one study.12 Prospective comparative studies with endovenous
microfoam are needed to conﬁrm the long-term clinical
efﬁcacy and a decreased incidence of nerve injury and to
recommend PEM over other ablation techniques.
Guideline 4. IPV ablation in patients with CEAP class
C2 varicose veins
Guideline 4.1.
4.1.1 For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class C2)
who have signiﬁcant, symptomatic axial reﬂux of the
GSV or SSV, we recommend against treatment of
IPVs concomitant with initial ablation of the superﬁcial truncal veins.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
4.1.2. For patients with varicose veins (CEAP class C2)
who have signiﬁcant, symptomatic axial reﬂux of the
AAGSV or PAGSV, we suggest against treatment of
IPVs concomitant with initial ablation of the superﬁcial truncal veins.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. Patients with CEAP class C2 varicose veins
often do not have IPVs identiﬁed by DU, even when
they are present, because many vascular laboratories
have concentrated on imaging the superﬁcial truncal
veins (GSV, SSV, AAGSV, PAGSV) and tributary veins. The
lower extremities have a large number of perforating
veins, and their common locations have been identiﬁed
in elegant anatomic dissections.198,199 When perforating
veins are identiﬁed during the evaluation of varicose
veins, they will often be competent and functioning
normally. However, IPVs can also be identiﬁed in the

thigh and calf when a complete lower extremity venous
study is performed as a part of the initial evaluation
(Fig 3). Incompetent thigh perforator veins adjacent, or
connected, to incompetent saphenous veins are especially easy to identify, owing to their proximity to the
thigh truncal veins. Also, these perforator veins can occasionally be the single connection between an incompetent truncal thigh vein and the deep venous system,
functioning in a role similar to that of the SFJ.
When a venous DU examination identiﬁes an incompetent thigh or calf perforator vein, in conjunction with
incompetent truncal and/or tributary veins, in patients
with symptomatic CEAP class C2 disease, a decision is
required how to proceed. The question is whether it
would be better to perform ablation of the superﬁcial
truncal vein alone and treat the perforator vein later, if
needed, as a staged procedure. Previous guidelines
have recommended a combined procedure for patients
with more advanced chronic venous insufﬁciency.20,38
Evidence. The systematic review of Farah et al19 included
two RCTs with an intermediate risk of bias to deﬁne the role
of perforator ablation in patients with varicose vein CEAP
class C2 disease (Table IV).200,201 The ﬁrst RCT by Kianifard
et al200 had included patients with primary great saphenous varicose veins and IPVs who had undergone either
standard surgery (high ligation and saphenous stripping
and phlebectomy) or standard surgery combined with
subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery (SEPS). Of the 72
randomized patients, 38 had undergone SEPS (71% with C2
disease) and 32 had not (75% with C2 disease). At 1 year, the
SF-36 scores were not different between the two groups,
except for the bodily pain score, which had improved in the
SEPS group. The Aberdeen varicose vein questionnaire
score had improved in both groups. Although the visual
analog scale score for pain, mobility, and cosmetic
appearance had improved in both groups at 1 year (P < .05),
the improvement in mobility was only signiﬁcant in the
non-SEPS group (P < .05). Follow-up DU showed that IPVs
in the untreated leg were signiﬁcantly more frequent than
were those in the SEPS group.
The other study was by Park et al,201 who had randomized patients with C2 and C3 disease to either endovenous laser ablation of the IPVs in the thigh, followed by
ablation of the GSV below the IPV (n ¼ 34), or ablation
of the GSV starting just proximal to the thigh perforator
without ablation of the perforator vein (n ¼ 35). Technical
success was signiﬁcantly lower with ablation of the perforators (76.5%) compared with ablation of the GSV (100%;
P ¼ .002). However, no signiﬁcant difference was found in
clinical success (continued closure of treated vein) between the groups (1 week, 96.1% vs 100%; 1 month,
100% vs 97.1%; and 3, 6, and 12 months, 100% for both
groups). The investigators also reported no signiﬁcant differences in complications between the two groups at all
intervals.201

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

251

Volume 11, Number 2

Additional studies that were not discussed in the systematic review included an RCT by Fitridge et al,202
who had evaluated the hemodynamic role of calf IPVs
in patients with uncomplicated varicose veins. They studied 38 limbs in 35 patients with incompetent GSVs and
one or more IPVs. All the limbs had undergone high ligation and saphenous stripping with or without phlebectomy with (group 1; n ¼ 21) or without (group 2; n ¼ 17)
open ligation of the IPV. In group 2, nine limbs had had
persistent IPVs, and eight had had no residual IPVs.
Both groups demonstrated signiﬁcant improvement of
venous function by air plethysmography postoperatively,
including the venous volume, venous ﬁlling index, and
ejection fraction. No signiﬁcant difference was found between the two groups in either the preoperative or postoperative venous function. Follow-up DU could not
identify previously seen IPVs in w50% of patients (8 of
17) who had not undergone open ligation of the IPVs.
This ﬁnding was explained as possible owing to avulsion
during surgery vs possible improvement in function after
pathologic saphenous vein removal.
In a prospective cohort study, Koroglu et al203
compared the effectiveness of endovenous laser ablation
and concomitant foam sclerotherapy in two groups of
patientsdone with isolated saphenous vein reﬂux (group
1; n ¼ 36 limbs) and one with saphenous vein reﬂux and
IPV (group 2; n ¼ 24 limbs); 21 of the 60 limbs had had C2
disease. Occlusion of the IPVs was identiﬁed in 75% postoperatively compared with 98.6% of saphenous veins.
Although no clinically signiﬁcant difference was found
in the VCSS between the two groups, the visual analog
scale score was more prominently decreased after treatment of isolated saphenous vein insufﬁciency. Their results suggest that the clinical outcomes will be superior
for patients with isolated truncal insufﬁciency.
van Neer et al,204 in their prospective study of 74 limbs
(55 class C2) of 59 patients with primary varicose veins,
evaluated the effects of high ligation and saphenous
stripping to just below the knee before and 6 months after the procedure. They found that reﬂux in the GSV
below the knee can persist in the main GSV trunk and
the anterior arch and posterior arch vein tributaries after
stripping. On multivariable analysis, the investigators
found no signiﬁcant association between the presence
of an IPV preoperatively and reﬂux in the GSV or its
branches below the knee postoperatively or between
the preoperative IPVs and postoperative visible varicose
veins. In addition, the diameter of the GSV below the
knee and its branches decreased signiﬁcantly after short
stripping of the more proximal GSV. The proportion of
patients with visible varicose veins in the GSV area below
the knee had decreased from 70% to 16% after stripping.
The investigators concluded that IPVs are not related to
the persistence of visible varicose veins below the knee
nor to the persistence of below-the-knee GSV reﬂux.

Fig 3. Perforating veins of the leg. PTV, Posterior tibial vein;
SPC, superﬁcial posterior compartment. Used with
permission of Mayo Foundation for Education and
Research, all rights reserved.

The ﬁndings of these studies, including the systematic
review, support the initial nontreatment of IPVs in patients with C2 disease who have truncal vein reﬂux associated with IPVs. The addition of perforator ablation in
RCTs did not signiﬁcantly improve hemodynamic status,
clinical presentation, or QoL compared with treatment of
superﬁcial truncal vein reﬂux alone.200,201 In addition, no
statistically signiﬁcant difference was found in the
anatomic closure of the GSV at 1 month and 1 year.19
The clinical presentation of an incompetent thigh
perforator vein with an incompetent distal GSV deserves
special consideration. In many of these patients, the SFJ
and proximal GSV will be competent. A good practice
appears to be to treat these patients with ablation of
the distal GSV and the thigh perforator vein, which is
the major incompetent connection with the deep
venous system. However, a RCT by Park et al201 advised
the performance of saphenous vein ablation alone for
these patients. However, the primary reason for failure
of the combined procedure was technical, with an
inability to treat the perforators in 8 of 34 limbs
(23.5%).201 Further studies to support perforator ablation
during the initial procedure in these unique situations
are warranted.
Guideline 4.2. For patients with varicose veins (C2)
and persistent or recurrent symptoms after previous
complete ablation of incompetent superﬁcial truncal
veins, we suggest treatment of IPVs if they are the
origin of symptomatic varicose tributaries.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. Once the incompetent truncal veins have
been treated in patients with CEAP class 2 varicose veins,
all these patients should return for procedural follow-up
and conﬁrmation that the symptoms and abnormal

252

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Table IV. PICO (patients, intervention, comparison, outcome) data of studies comparing outcomes of saphenous ablation
with and without perforator vein ablation
Investigator

Patients/limbs

Intervention

Comparison

Outcome

Study design

72 Patients
randomized

38 Patients
underwent
standard
surgery þ SEPS
(C2 disease, 71%)

32 Patients
underwent only
standard
surgery (C2
disease, 75%)

At 1 year, signiﬁcant
reduction in number
of IPVs and limbs with
IPVs with addition of
SEPS; no signiﬁcant
difference in pain
(VAS), mobility,
cosmetic score, or QoL
(SF-36, AVVQ)
between groups

RCT

69 Patients
with varicose
veins (C2/C3)
and thigh
IPV without
SFJ reﬂux
but with IPV
reﬂux into
GSV

EVLA of thigh IPVs,
followed by
ablation of GSV
(IPVA) below IPV
(n ¼ 34)

EVLA of GSV
(GSVA) starting
just proximal to
thigh IPV
without
ablation of IPV
(n ¼ 35)

Technical success
signiﬁcantly lower
with IPVA (76.5%) vs
GSVA (100%; P ¼ .002;
no signiﬁcant
difference in clinical
success (continued
closure of treated vein)
between IPVA and
GSVA (1 week: 96.1% vs
100%; 1 month: 100%
vs 97.1%; 3, 6, and
12 months: 100% for
both groups); no
signiﬁcant difference
in occurrence and
degree of
complications
between both groups

RCT

Fitridge et al,202 1999

38 Limbs in 35
patients with
incompetent
GSVs and $1
IPV

GSV stripping and
phlebectomy
with open
ligation of IPV
(n ¼ 21)

GSV stripping and
phlebectomy
only (n ¼ 17)

No signiﬁcant difference
between groups in
either preoperative or
postoperative venous
function (venous
volume, venous ﬁlling
index, ejection
fraction); at 3 months,
DUS failed to identify
previously seen IPVs in
w50% of patients (8/
17) without open
ligation of IPV

RCT

Koroglu et al,203 2011

60 Limbs in 55
patients (C1C5; C2, n ¼ 21;
35%)

EVLA of reﬂuxing
saphenous vein
and FS of
venous
varicosities

EVLA of reﬂuxing
saphenous vein
and FS of
venous
varicosities þ FS
of IPV

At 6 months, complete
occlusion of IPV noted
in 75% vs 98.6% for
saphenous veins; no
signiﬁcant difference
in VCSS improvement
between groups;
improvement in VAS
score greater after
treatment of isolated
saphenous vein reﬂux
(P < .05)

Single-center,
prospective
study

Kianifard et al,

200

2007

Park et al,201 2012

AVVQ, Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire; DUS, duplex ultrasound; EVLA, endovenous laser ablation; FS, foam sclerotherapy; GSV, great saphenous
vein; GSVA, great saphenous vein ablation; IPV, incompetent perforator vein; IPVA, incompetent perforator vein ablation; QoL, quality of life; SEPS,
subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery; SFJ, saphenofemoral junction; SF-36, short-form 36-item questionnaire; VAS, visual analog scale.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

253

Volume 11, Number 2

veins have been adequately treated. For patients with
persistent symptoms, new symptoms, or residual visible
varicose veins, they should be reassessed with physical
examination and DU to determine the cause of the residual symptoms and whether treatment of visible varicose veins has been incomplete. The authors of these
practice guidelines recommend that all patients who
have undergone a venous intervention for varicose veins
have at least one follow-up visit at w3 months, when the
symptoms related to the procedure are likely to have
resolved, and the patients with residual symptoms or
visible residual varicose veins should be reassessed using
DU of the truncal, tributary, deep, and perforator veins
throughout the entire leg. The DU study should be used
to identify the treated veins with both complete and
incomplete closure, residual untreated tributary veins,
and incompetent deep and perforator veins. If all intended truncal and tributary veins have been treated and
yet the symptoms persist, other potential causes of the
persistent symptoms should be considered, including
residual incompetent tributary veins and IPVs, because
they could represent the origin of the symptomatic
varicose veins.
Evidence. In a prospective study of 127 limbs in 92 patients, including 58 limbs with C2 disease, van Rij
et al205 performed ﬂush ligation of the SFJ or SPJ, stripping of the GSV to the knee, and multiple stab avulsions
and ligation of IPVs that had marked reﬂux. Deep venous
reﬂux was present in 68 limbs (53.5%). After 3 years,
recurrence of reﬂux at the SFJ and SPJ was 23% and 52%,
respectively. Additionally, IPVs had progressively
increased in number, with an overall clinical recurrence
of 51% at 3 to 5 years. Of the 53 limbs with a normal
venous ﬁlling index after surgery, 29 (55%) had deteriorated at 3 years. The investigators had concluded that
incomplete superﬁcial surgery, in particular at the SFJ
and SPJ, is a less frequent cause of recurrent disease and
that neovascular reconnection and persistent abnormal
venous function are the major contributors to disease
recurrence.
In a retrospective study, Stuart et al206 evaluated 62
limbs of 47 patients (including 47 limbs with C2-C3 disease) treated with SFJ ligation, stripping of the GSV in
the thigh, and multiple phlebectomies vs SPJ ligation
and multiple phlebectomies, or both. The patients were
examined before surgery and at 14 weeks. After intervention, a signiﬁcant reduction was found in the total number of limbs with IPVs (65% preoperatively vs 37%
postoperatively; P < .01). Additionally, a signiﬁcant reduction in the number of IPVs imaged (52% vs 28%; P < .01)
and in the median IPV diameter (median, 4 mm [range,
1-11 mm]; vs median, 3 mm [range, 1-8 mm]; P < .01) had
occurred after surgery. However, IPVs remained in 20% of
the limbs in which axial saphenous reﬂux had been

abolished compared with 72% of the limbs in which superﬁcial or deep reﬂux remained (P < .01). The investigators concluded that superﬁcial venous surgery fails to
correct perforator vein incompetence in patients with
deep vein reﬂux and those with persistent superﬁcial
reﬂux.206
Guideline 5. Ablation of the reﬂuxing symptomatic
superﬁcial venous trunk and concomitant treatment
of varicose tributaries
Guideline 5.1.
5.1.1. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the GSV
or SSV and associated varicosities, we recommend
ablation of the reﬂuxing venous trunk and concomitant phlebectomy or UGFS of the varicosities with
physician-compounded foam or commercial PEM.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
5.1.2. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the
AAGSV or PAGSV, we recommend ablation of the reﬂuxing venous trunk and concomitant phlebectomy or UGFS
of the varicosities with physician-compounded foam or
commercial PEM.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
Rationale. In patients with both truncal vein reﬂux and
incompetent tributaries, the decision regarding optimal
treatment must involve the scientiﬁc evidence, the patient’s wishes and concerns, and a well-informed physician providing advice. The common scenario of calf or
thigh tributaries emanating from an incompetent truncal vein treated in a single session will usually be the
more cost-effective approach and has been associated
with less total time off from work. In situations in which
nonsaphenous varicose tributaries are also present in the
leg, concomitant treatment with phlebectomy or UGFS
would be more appropriate. Other situations such as
transportation needs or caregiver restraints would also
favor concomitant treatment.
Evidence. Harlander-Locke et al207 performed a retrospective review of 1000 consecutive RFAs of truncal veins
(916 limbs with class C2-C6). Five hundred seven limbs
had large (>3mm) symptomatic varicose tributaries of
which 355 (70%) underwent concomitant phlebectomy,
145 (25%) limbs had staged phlebectomy. Twenty-six
limbs (5%) did not require staged phlebectomy because
of symptom resolution after saphenous ablation. The
authors concluded that patients with incompetent,
symptomatic tributary veins measuring 3 mm or greater
and axial reﬂux may beneﬁt from endovenous ablation
with concomitant phlebectomy.
Brown et al208 used data from the Varicose Vein Registry from 2015 to 2019 for 3375 C2 patients who had undergone thermal ablation of the saphenous veins.

254

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Patients who had undergone concomitant sclerotherapy
were excluded. Of the 2026 remaining patients, 1013
were included in each of two groups: ablation alone
and ablation with phlebectomy. The preprocedural
VCSSs were similar in both groups. However, the median
improvement in the VCSSs was higher for those who had
undergone ablation and phlebectomy. In addition, the
investigators had examined patient-reported symptoms.
After the procedure, improvement had occurred in all
symptoms (heaviness, achiness, throbbing, swelling, itching, appearance, pain, and effect on work). However, the
change in the scores was higher for the ablation plus
phlebectomy group than for the ablation alone group.
Conway et al209 in a 2020 study of data from the varicose vein module of the American Venous Registry
examined 526 patients with CEAP clinical class C2
without prior venous treatment. Combined treatment
(CT) in this cohort consisted of phlebectomy or sclerotherapy, and unimodal treatment was thermal ablation
(RFA or laser). The change in symptom severity was
assessed by the pretreatment and 1-month posttreatment VCSSs. After treatment, CT was associated
with signiﬁcantly lower scores for the pain component
of the VCSS (0.31 for unimodal treatment vs 0.07 for CT;
P ¼ .0008).
From England, the AVULS (ambulatory varicosity avulsion later or synchronized) trial compared simultaneous
and staged treatment, with the Aberdeen Varicose Vein
Questionnaire score as the primary outcome.210 Both
groups showed signiﬁcant improvement in symptoms
from baseline at 6 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months
(P < .0001). Although a signiﬁcant difference was seen
at 6 weeks, with the simultaneous group showing a
5.48-point improvement (P ¼ .029), no signiﬁcant differences were found at 6 and 12 months. Comparing the
staged group who had subsequently required further
treatment and the simultaneous group, a large signiﬁcant difference was found at 6 weeks and 6 months.
The difference was no longer signiﬁcant, however, at
12 months.
Guideline 5.2.
5.2.1. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the GSV
or SSV, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing venous
trunk and staged or UGFS of the varicosities only if
anatomic or medical reasons are present. We suggest
shared decision-making with the patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)
5.2.2. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the
AAGSV or PAGSV, we suggest ablation of the reﬂuxing
venous trunk and staged phlebectomy or UGFS of the
varicosities only if anatomic or medical reasons are
present. We suggest shared decision-making with the
patient.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak), quality of
evidence: C (low to very low)

Rationale. A single procedure that includes both ablation of the truncal reﬂux and treatment of varicose tributaries can provide immediate satisfaction to patients
who come for treatment of symptomatic varicose veins.
Medical or anatomic reasons should be present to stage
the procedures, because it is not rare that patients with
bilateral varicosities will be scheduled for several subsequent procedures to treat truncal reﬂux and varicosities
separately. The medical reasons for staging the procedure include extensive bilateral varicosities and/or the
need for general anesthesia or a large amount of local
or tumescent anesthetic. The anatomic reasons can
include patients with circumferential limb varicosities
requiring changing the patient’s position from supine
to decubitus. In addition, in some patients with both
truncal incompetence and tributary incompetence, ablation of the truncal vein will reduce the size of the tributary vein or reduce the symptoms of heaviness and
aching to an extent that no further treatment will be
needed. Some patients with truncal and tributary reﬂux
might only want the discomfort from their varicose veins
relieved, without a desire to eliminate the visible tributaries. Thus, ablating the truncal vein might relieve
enough discomfort that a second procedure will never
be necessary. During the shared decision-making process, patients might request a staged approach with
minimally invasive treatment of the tributaries using
physician-compounded foam, commercial foam, or
liquid sclerotherapy as an alternative to miniphlebectomy, which might be the only procedure
approved by the patient’s insurance company as a
concomitant procedure. Some patients also might not
have large enough symptomatic tributaries for their
treatment to be covered by insurance; therefore, they
might delay tributary treatment until the tributaries
become larger or until they have adequate ﬁnancial resources to pay for the procedure. Patients with diffuse
bilateral varicosities and bilateral saphenous incompetence can safely undergo bilateral ablation; however, the
additional concomitant phlebectomies might be too
much for the patient and/or provider. Patients who elect
the staged approach must be informed that a distinct
likelihood exists of needing a second procedure, whether
mini-phlebectomy, liquid sclerotherapy, or foam
sclerotherapy.
Evidence. Two studies using the ﬁrst-generation RFA
catheters examined the fate of residual varicosities after
ablation alone. Monahan211 had ablated the GSV in 54
limbs. At 6 months, complete resolution of the varicose
tributaries was found in 13% limbs and 28.4% of the
varicose veins had spontaneously resolved. An additional
88.7% of the varicose veins had decreased in size by
average of 34.6%. Welch212 studied 184 limbs treated with
GSV RFA. Of the 155 limbs with successful total ablation
or only a patent segment <10 cm long, 101 (65.1%) had

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

255

Volume 11, Number 2

had symptom resolution and did not require further
treatment at 9 months of follow up.
A systematic review by Farah et al19 studied the outcomes of 6098 patients who had been enrolled in a RCT
(two publications),213,214 two observational studies,208,209
and another systematic review of eight studies.215 The
data supported better short-term and better to equivalent long-term outcomes for the patients who had undergone the combined procedure.
In a meta-analysis by Aherne et al,216 truncal ablation
alone, without any treatment of the varicose tributaries,
was sufﬁcient therapy for 63.9% of those assessed. Both
concomitant and staged treatments were safe and effective. Improvements in early disease severity and QoL scores
were better in the concomitant group. The concomitant interventions in all studies had resulted in fewer reinterventions than had the staged interventions. However, a
subgroup analysis of the RCTs alone did not identify differences in the reinterventions between the groups.
5.3. For patients with symptomatic reﬂux in the major
superﬁcial venous trunks and associated varicosities
undergoing initial ablation alone, we suggest that
patients be followed up for $3 months to assess the
need for staged phlebectomy or ultrasound-guided
sclerotherapy for persistent or recurrent symptoms.
Longer follow-up is recommended for patients with
recurrent symptoms and for patients participating in
clinical trials.
Level of recommendation: ungraded good clinical
practice

follow-up examination at 6 weeks to assess the need for a
further procedure. Only 36% of the patients in the staged
group had required additional treatment. A longer
observation period likely would have decreased that percentage even further.

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: PG, PL, SW, MH Meissner, JA, KB,
RB, MD, JF, EF, MG, AH, AJ, RK, MH Murad, AO, KO, MS,
SV, HW
Analysis and interpretation: PG, PL, SW, MH Meissner, JA,
KB, RB, MD, JF, EF, MG, AH, AJ, RK, MH Murad, AO, KO,
MS, SV, HW
Data collection: PG, PL, SW, MH Meissner, JA, KB, RB, MD,
JF, EF, MG, AH, AJ, RK, MH Murad, AO, KO, MS, SV, HW
Writing the article: PG, PL, SW, MH Meissner, JA, KB, RB,
MD, JF, EF, MG, AH, AJ, RK, MH Murad, AO, KO, MS,
SV, HW
Critical revision of the article: PG, PL, SW, MH Meissner, JA,
KB, RB, MD, JF, EF, MG, AH, AJ, RK, MH Murad, AO, KO,
MS, SV, HW
Final approval of the article: PG, PL, SW, MH Meissner, JA,
KB, RB, MD, JF, EF, MG, AH, AJ, RK, MH Murad, AO, KO,
MS, SV, HW
Statistical analysis: Not applicable
Obtained funding: Not applicable
Overall responsibility: PG
P.G., P.F.L., and S.M.W. are co-primary authors and cochairs of the writing committee.

REFERENCES
Rationale. For patients who elect a staged approach,
signiﬁcant time must elapse after the procedure to
differentiate between the symptoms related to recovery
from the original procedure and residual symptoms from
remaining venous insufﬁciency. We recommend followup for a minimum of 3 months to determine whether
the procedure has both resolved the symptoms and
eliminated visible tributary veins. Longer follow-up is
recommended for patients with recurrent symptoms
and those participating in clinical trials. In patients with
residual symptoms, DU should be performed to assess
the treated veins for closure and to assess any remaining
superﬁcial truncal veins, tributaries, and perforator veins
for the size and extent of reﬂux. Once identiﬁed, treatment with a second procedure should use the same
criteria as used for the initial procedure. Treatment can
range from ablation of an incompletely closed or more
distal truncal vein to removal or sclerotherapy of any
remaining incompetent tributary veins.
Evidence. In two studies, the follow-up evaluation was
performed at 3 to 6 months to fully assess potential
regression of the tributary varicosities, with signiﬁcant
regression and improvement in symptoms.211,212 In
contrast, Lane et al,210 in the AVULS trial, had performed a

1. Crawford JM, Gasparis A, Almeida J, Elias S, Wakeﬁeld T, Lal BK, et al.
A review of United States endovenous ablation practice trends from
the Medicare data utilization and payment database. J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2019;7:471-9.
2. Mann M, Wang P, Schul M, Khilnani NM, Park A, Makary MA, et al.
Signiﬁcant physician practice variability in the utilization of endovenous thermal ablation in the 2017 Medicare population. J Vasc
Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2019;7:808-16.e1.
3. Stonko DP, Dun C, Walsh C, Schul M, Blebea J, Boyle EM, et al.
Evaluation of a physician peer-benchmarking intervention for
practice variability and costs for endovenous thermal ablation.
JAMA Netw Open 2021;4:e2137515.
4. Prabhakar AM, Misono AS, Sheth RA, Rosenkrantz AB,
Hemingway J, Hughes DR, et al. Changing Medicare utilization of
minimally invasive procedures for the treatment of chronic venous
insufﬁciency. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2017;28:818-24.
5. Rasmussen L, Lawaetz M, Bjoern L, Blemings A, Eklof B. Randomized clinical trial comparing endovenous laser ablation and stripping of the great saphenous vein with clinical and duplex outcome
after 5 years. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:421-6.
6. Rass K, Frings N, Glowacki P, Graber S, Tilgen W, Vogt T. Same site
recurrence is more frequent after endovenous laser ablation
compared with high ligation and stripping of the great saphenous
vein: 5 year results of a randomized clinical trial (RELACS study). Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2015;50:648-56.
7. Lawaetz M, Serup J, Lawaetz B, Bjoern L, Blemings A, Eklof B, et al.
Comparison of endovenous ablation techniques, foam sclerotherapy and surgical stripping for great saphenous varicose veins:
extended 5-year follow-up of a RCT. Int Angiol 2017;36:281-8.
8. Vahaaho S, Halmesmaki K, Alback A, Saarinen E, Venermo M. Fiveyear follow-up of a randomized clinical trial comparing open surgery, foam sclerotherapy and endovenous laser ablation for great
saphenous varicose veins. Br J Surg 2018;105:686-91.

256

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

9. Wallace T, El-Sheikha J, Nandhra S, Leung C, Mohamed A,
Harwood A, et al. Long-term outcomes of endovenous laser ablation and conventional surgery for great saphenous varicose veins. Br
J Surg 2018;105:1759-67.
10. Brittenden J, Cooper D, Dimitrova M, Scotland G, Cotton SC,
Elders A, et al. Five-year outcomes of a randomized trial of treatments for varicose veins. N Engl J Med 2019;381:912-22.
11. Mousa A, El Azzazi M, Elkalla MA. Different management options for
primary varicose veins in females: a prospective study. Surg Open
Sci 2019;1:25-33.
12. Morrison N, Gibson K, Vasquez M, Weiss R, Jones A. Five-year
extension study of patients from a randomized clinical trial
(VeClose) comparing cyanoacrylate closure vs radiofrequency
ablation for the treatment of incompetent great saphenous veins.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2020;8:978-89.
13. Gauw SA, Lawson JA, van Vlijmen-van Keulen CJ, Pronk P,
Gaastra MT, Mooij MC. Five-year follow-up of a randomized,
controlled trial comparing saphenofemoral ligation and stripping
of the great saphenous vein with endovenous laser ablation (980
nm) using local tumescent anesthesia. J Vasc Surg 2016;63:420-8.
14. Eggen CAM, Alozai T, Pronk P, Mooij MC, Gaastra MTW, Unlu C, et al.
Ten-year follow-up of a randomized controlled trial comparing
saphenofemoral ligation and stripping of the great saphenous vein
with endovenous laser ablation (980 nm) using local tumescent
anesthesia. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:646-53.e1.
15. Lurie F, Passman M, Meisner M, Dalsing M, Masuda E, Welch H, et al.
The 2020 update of the CEAP classiﬁcation system and reporting
standards. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2020;8:342-52.
16. Masuda E, Ozsvath K, Vossler J, Woo K, Kistner R, Lurie F, et al. The
2020 appropriate use criteria for chronic lower extremity venous
disease of the American Venous Forum, the Society for Vascular
Surgery, the American Vein and Lymphatic Society, and the Society
of Interventional Radiology. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord
2020;8:505-25.e4.
17. Catarinella FS, Nieman FH, Wittens CH. An overview of the most
commonly used venous quality of life and clinical outcome measurements. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2015;3:333-40.
18. Mallick S, Sarkar T, Gayen T, Naskar B, Datta A, Sarkar S. Correlation
of venous clinical severity score and venous disability score with
dermatology life quality index in chronic venous insufﬁciency. Indian J Dermatol 2020;65:489-94.
19. Farah MH, Nayfeh T, Urtecho M, Hasan B, Amin M, Sen I, et al.
A systematic review supporting the Society for Vascular Surgery, the
American Venous Forum, and the American Vein and Lymphatic
Society guidelines on the management of varicose veins. J Vasc
Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:1155-71.
20. Gloviczki P, Comerota AJ, Dalsing MC, Eklof BG, Gillespie DL,
Gloviczki ML, et al. The care of patients with varicose veins and
associated chronic venous diseases: clinical practice guidelines of
the Society for Vascular Surgery and the American Venous Forum.
J Vasc Surg 2011;53(Suppl):2S-48S.
21. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Varicose veins in
the legs: the diagnosis and management of varicose veins. Available
at: https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg168. Accessed February 21,
2021.
22. Wittens C, Davies AH, Baekgaard N, Broholm R, Cavezzi A,
Chastanet S, et al. Editor’s choice e management of chronic venous
disease: clinical practice guidelines of the European Society for
Vascular Surgery (ESVS). Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2015;49:678-737.
23. Gloviczki P, Dalsing MC, Eklof B, Lurie F, Wakeﬁeld TW, Gloviczki ML.
Handbook of Venous and Lymphatic Disorders: guidelines of the
American Venous Forum. 4th ed. CRC Press; 2017.
24. Nicolaides A, Kakkos S, Baekgaard N, Comerota A, de Maeseneer M,
Eklof B, et al. Management of chronic venous disorders of the lower
limbs: guidelines according to scientiﬁc evidence: part I. Int Angiol
2018;37:181-254.
25. Nicolaides A, Kakkos S, Baekgaard N, Comerota A, de Maeseneer M,
Eklof B, et al. Management of chronic venous disorders of the lower
limbs: guidelines according to scientiﬁc evidence: part II. Int Angiol
2020;39:175-240.
26. Kursat Bozkurt A, Lawaetz M, Danielsson G, Lazaris AM, Pavlovic M,
Olariu S, et al. European College of Phlebology guideline for truncal
ablation. Phlebology 2020;35:73-83.

27. De Maeseneer MG, Kakkos SK, Aherne T, Baekgaard N, Black S,
Blomgren L, et al. Editor’s choice e European Society for Vascular
Surgery (ESVS) 2022 clinical practice guidelines on the management of chronic venous disease of the lower limbs. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2022;63:184-267.
28. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for Vascular
Surgery including the experience with the GRADE framework.
J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
29. Murad MH, Swiglo BA, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Montori VM. Methodology for clinical practice guidelines for the management of arteriovenous access. J Vasc Surg 2008;48(Suppl):26S-30S.
30. Guyatt GH, Alonso-Coello P, Schunemann HJ, Djulbegovic B,
Nothacker M, Lange S, et al. Guideline panels should seldom make
good practice statements: guidance from the GRADE Working
Group. J Clin Epidemiol 2016;80:3-7.
31. Eklof B, Rutherford RB, Bergan JJ, Carpentier PH, Gloviczki P,
Kistner RL, et al. Revision of the CEAP classiﬁcation for chronic
venous disorders: consensus statement. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:
1248-52.
32. Perrin M, Eklöf B, Maleti O. The vein glossary. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2018;6:e11-217.
33. Eklof B, Perrin M, Delis KT, Rutherford RB, Gloviczki P, et al; American Venous Forum. Updated terminology of chronic venous disorders: the VEIN-TERM transatlantic interdisciplinary consensus
document. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:498-501.
34. Alonso-Coello P, Schünemann HJ, Moberg J, BrignardelloPetersen R, Akl EA, Davoli M, et al. GRADE evidence to decision
(EtD) frameworks: a systematic and transparent approach to making well informed healthcare choices. 1: Introduction. BMJ 2016;353:
i2016.
35. Shepherd AC, Gohel MS, Lim CS, Hamish M, Davies AH. The treatment of varicose veins: an investigation of patient preferences and
expectations. Phlebology 2010;25:54-65.
36. Pappas P, Gunnarsson C, David G. Evaluating patient preferences for
thermal ablation versus nonthermal, nontumescent varicose vein
treatments. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2021;9:383-92.
37. Kheirelseid EAH, Crowe G, Sehgal R, Liakopoulos D, Bela H,
Mulkern E, et al. Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials evaluating long-term outcomes of endovenous management of lower extremity varicose veins. J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2018;6:256-70.
38. O’Donnell TF Jr, Passman MA. Clinical practice guidelines of the
Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) and the American Venous Forum
(AVF)dmanagement of venous leg ulcers: introduction. J Vasc Surg
2014;60(Suppl):1S-2S.
39. De Maeseneer M, Pichot O, Cavezzi A, Earnshaw J, van Rij A, Lurie F,
et al. Duplex ultrasound investigation of the veins of the lower limbs
after treatment for varicose veinsdUIP consensus document. Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2011;42:89-102.
40. Gloviczki P, Dalsing MC, Henke P, Lal BK, O’Donnell TF Jr,
Shortell CK, et al. Report of the Society for Vascular Surgery and the
American Venous Forum on the July 20, 2016 meeting of the
Medicare evidence development and coverage advisory committee
panel on lower extremity chronic venous disease. J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2017;5:378-98.
41. Jones WS, Vemulapalli S, Parikh KS, Coeytaux RR, Crowley MJ,
Raitz G, et al. Treatment Strategies for Patients with Lower Extremity Chronic Venous Disease (LECVD). Agency Healthcare
Research and Quality; 2017.
42. Mercer KG, Scott DJ, Berridge DC. Preoperative duplex imaging is
required before all operations for primary varicose veins. Br J Surg
1998;85:1495-7.
43. Rautio T, Perala J, Wiik H, Haukipuro K, Juvonen T. Inﬂuence of
preoperative duplex ultrasonography on the operative procedure
for primary varicose vein surgery. Phlebology 2002;16:149-53.
44. Darke SG, Vetrivel S, Foy DM, Smith S, Baker S. A comparison of
duplex scanning and continuous wave Doppler in the assessment
of primary and uncomplicated varicose veins. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 1997;14:457-61.
45. Rautio T, Perala J, Biancari F, Wiik H, Ohtonen P, Haukipuro K, et al.
Accuracy of hand-held Doppler in planning the operation for primary varicose veins. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;24:450-5.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

257

Volume 11, Number 2
46. Dhillon J, Thorwald M, Chung S, Maloney G, Srivatsa S. Comparison
of hand-held acoustic Doppler with point-of-care portable color
Doppler ultrasound in the assessment of venous reﬂux disease.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2020;8:831-9.e2.
47. Wills V, Moylan D, Chambers J. The use of routine duplex scanning
in the assessment of varicose veins. Aust N Z J Surg 1998;68:41-4.
48. Blomgren L, Johansson G, Emanuelsson L, Dahlberg-Akerman A,
Thermaenius P, Bergqvist D. Late follow-up of a randomized trial of
routine duplex imaging before varicose vein surgery. Br J Surg
2011;98:1112-6.
49. Cavezzi A, Labropoulos N, Partsch H, Ricci S, Caggiati A, Myers K,
et al. Duplex ultrasound investigation of the veins in chronic venous
disease of the lower limbsdUIP consensus document. Part II.
Anatomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2006;31:288-99.
50. Masuda EM, Kistner RL. Prospective comparison of duplex scanning
and descending venography in the assessment of venous insufﬁciency. Am J Surg 1992;164:254-9.
51. Varcoe RL, Thomas SD, Bourke V, Rubesamen NM, Lennox AF. Utility
of adjunctive digital subtraction venography for the treatment of
saphenous vein insufﬁciency. J Endovasc Ther 2017;24:290-6.
52. Jayaraj A, Raju S. Three-dimensional computed tomography venogram enables accurate diagnosis and treatment of patients presenting with symptomatic chronic iliofemoral venous obstruction.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2021;9:73-80.e1.
53. Gagne PJ, Tahara RW, Fastabend CP, Dzieciuchowicz L, Marston W,
Vedantham S, et al. Venography versus intravascular ultrasound for
diagnosing and treating iliofemoral vein obstruction. J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2017;5:678-87.
54. Schleimer K, Barbati ME, Grommes J, Hoeft K, Toonder IM,
Wittens CHA, et al. Update on diagnosis and treatment strategies in
patients with post-thrombotic syndrome due to chronic venous
obstruction and role of endovenous recanalization. J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2019;7:592-600.
55. van Bemmelen PS, Bedford G, Beach K, Strandness DE. Quantitative
segmental evaluation of venous valvular reﬂux with duplex ultrasound scanning. J Vasc Surg 1989;10:425-31.
56. Labropoulos N, Tiongson J, Pryor L, Tassiopoulos AK, Kang SS, Ashraf
Mansour M, et al. Deﬁnition of venous reﬂux in lower-extremity
veins. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:793-8.
57. Deol ZK, Lakhanpal S, Pappas PJ. Severity of disease and treatment
outcomes of anterior accessory great saphenous veins compared
with the great saphenous vein. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord
2022;10:654-60.
58. Dillavou ED, Harlander-Locke M, Labropoulos N, Elias S, Ozsvath KJ.
Current state of the treatment of perforating veins. J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2016;4:131-5.
59. Labropoulos N, Leon LR Jr. Duplex evaluation of venous insufﬁciency. Semin Vasc Surg 2005;18:5-9.
60. Labropoulos N, Mansour MA, Kang SS, Gloviczki P, Baker WH. New
insights into perforator vein incompetence. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 1999;18:228-34.
61. Sandri JL, Barros FS, Pontes S, Jacques C, Salles-Cunha SX. Diameter-reﬂux relationship in perforating veins of patients with varicose
veins. J Vasc Surg 1999;30:867-74.
62. Malgor R, Labropoulos N. Duplex ultrasound scanning for chronic
venous obstruction and valvular incompetence. In: Gloviczki P,
Dalsing MC, Eklof B, Lurie F, Wakeﬁeld TW, Gloviczki ML, editors.
Handbook of Venous and Lymphatic Disorders: Guidelines of the
American Venous Forum. 4th ed. CRC Press; 2017:151-64.
63. Masuda EM, Kistner RL, Eklof B. Prospective study of duplex scanning for venous reﬂux: comparison of Valsalva and pneumatic cuff
techniques in the reverse Trendelenburg and standing positions.
J Vasc Surg 1994;20:711-20.
64. Perrins S, Cha A, Qaqish R, Plummer D, Hsu R, Dietzek AM. Clinical
and anatomic outcomes of endovenous radiofrequency ablation
performed on symptomatic small-diameter great saphenous veins.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2013;1:245-9.
65. Intersocietal Accreditation Commission. Vascular Testing Accreditation: Standards and Guidelines. Available at: https://intersocietal.
org/programs/vascular-testing/standards/. Accessed May 22, 2022.
66. Vitale C, D’Abate F, Froio A. Needs of standardisation in reporting a
venous lower limb ultrasound exam for the assessment of varicose
veins. Phlebology 2021;36:665-7.

67. Kim MJ, Park PJ, Koo BH, Lee SG, Byun GY, Lee SR. Association
between venous reﬂux and diameter of great saphenous vein in
lower thigh. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2020;8:100-5.
68. Attaran RR, Bhalla A, Mena-Hurtado CI, Ochoa Chaar CI. Correlation
between great saphenous length of treatment zone and diameter
with improvement in symptoms after ablation. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2021;9:1443-50.
69. Gibson K, Meissner M, Wright D. Great saphenous vein diameter
does not correlate with worsening quality of life scores in patients
with great saphenous vein incompetence. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:
1634-41.
70. Joh JH, Park HC. The cutoff value of saphenous vein diameter to
predict reﬂux. J Korean Surg Soc 2013;85:169-74.
71. Mendoza E, Blattler W, Amsler F. Great saphenous vein diameter at
the saphenofemoral junction and proximal thigh as parameters of
venous disease class. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;45:76-83.
72. Hamel-Desnos CM, De Maeseneer M, Josnin M, Gillet JL, Allaert FA;
DIAGRAVES Study Group. Great saphenous vein diameters in
phlebological practice in France: a report of the DIAGRAVES study
by the French Society of Phlebology. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2019;58:96-103.
73. Navarro TP, Delis KT, Ribeiro AP. Clinical and hemodynamic significance of the greater saphenous vein diameter in chronic venous
insufﬁciency. Arch Surg 2002;137:1233-7.
74. Mdez-Herrero A, Gutierrez J, Camblor L, Carreno J, Llaneza J, RguezOlay J, et al. The relation among the diameter of the great saphenous vein, clinical state and haemodynamic pattern of the saphenofemoral junction in chronic superﬁcial venous insufﬁciency.
Phlebology 2007;22:207-13.
75. Yang Q, Zhao Y, Chen X, Tang P, Li L, Zhao J, et al. Association between vein diameters, reﬂux characteristics, and clinical severity in
patients with chronic venous insufﬁciency in Northwest China.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2021;9:401-8.e1.
76. Lane TRA, Varatharajan L, Fiorentino F, Shepherd AC, Zimmo L,
Gohel MS, et al. Truncal varicose vein diameter and patientreported outcome measures. Br J Surg 2017;104:1648-55.
77. Choi JY, Lee JH, Kwon OJ. Association between the saphenous vein
diameter and venous reﬂux on computed tomography venography
in patients with varicose veins. PLoS One 2022;17:e0263513.
78. Kakkos SK, Timpilis M, Patrinos P, Nikolakopoulos KM,
Papageorgopoulou CP, Kouri AK, et al. Acute effects of graduated
elastic compression stockings in patients with symptomatic varicose veins: a randomised double blind placebo controlled trial. Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2018;55:118-25.
79. Knight Nee Shingler SL, Robertson L, Stewart M. Graduated
compression stockings for the initial treatment of varicose veins in
people without venous ulceration. Cochrane Database Syst Rev
2021;7:CD008819.
80. Michaels JA, Brazier JE, Campbell WB, MacIntyre JB, Palfreyman SJ,
Ratcliffe J. Randomized clinical trial comparing surgery with conservative treatment for uncomplicated varicose veins. Br J Surg
2006;93:175-81.
81. Ratcliffe J, Brazier JE, Campbell WB, Palfreyman S, MacIntyre JB,
Michaels JA. Cost-effectiveness analysis of surgery versus conservative treatment for uncomplicated varicose veins in a randomized
clinical trial. Br J Surg 2006;93:182-6.
82. Sell H, Vikatmaa P, Alback A, Lepantalo M, Malmivaara A,
Mahmoud O, et al. Compression therapy versus surgery in the
treatment of patients with varicose veins: a RCT. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2014;47:670-7.
83. Lurie F, Kistner RL. Trends in patient reported outcomes of conservative and surgical treatment of primary chronic venous disease
contradict current practices. Ann Surg 2011;254:363-7.
84. Epstein D, Onida S, Bootun R, Ortega-Ortega M, Davies AH. Costeffectiveness of current and emerging treatments of varicose veins.
Value Health 2018;21:911-20.
85. Epstein D, Bootun R, Diop M, Ortega-Ortega M, Lane TRA,
Davies AH. Cost-effectiveness analysis of current varicose veins
treatments. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:504-13.e7.
86. Teter KA, Kabnick LS, Sadek M. Endovenous laser ablation: a
comprehensive review. Phlebology 2020;35:656-62.
87. Kabnick LS, Sadek M. Fiber type as compared to wavelength may
contribute more to improving postoperative recovery following

258

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

endovenous laser ablation. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord
2016;4:286-92.
88. Dietzek AM. Endovenous radiofrequency ablation for the treatment
of varicose veins. Vascular 2007;15:255-61.
89. Proebstle TM, Alm BJ, Gockeritz O, Wenzel C, Noppeney T, Lebard C,
et al. Five-year results from the prospective European multicentre
cohort study on radiofrequency segmental thermal ablation for
incompetent great saphenous veins. Br J Surg 2015;102:212-8.
90. Almeida JI, Javier JJ, Mackay EG, Bautista C, Cher DJ, Proebstle TM.
Thirty-sixth-month follow-up of ﬁrst-in-human use of cyanoacrylate
adhesive for treatment of saphenous vein incompetence. J Vasc
Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2017;5:658-66.
91. Proebstle T, Alm J, Dimitri S, Rasmussen L, Whiteley M, Lawson J,
et al. Three-year follow-up results of the prospective European
multicenter cohort study on cyanoacrylate embolization for treatment of reﬂuxing great saphenous veins. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2021;9:329-34.
92. Bozkurt AK, Yilmaz MF. A prospective comparison of a new
cyanoacrylate glue and laser ablation for the treatment of venous
insufﬁciency. Phlebology 2016;31(Suppl):106-13.
93. Eroglu E, Yasim A. A randomised clinical trial comparing n-butyl
cyanoacrylate, radiofrequency ablation and endovenous laser
ablation for the treatment of superﬁcial venous incompetence: two
year follow up results. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2018;56:553-60.
94. Elias S, Lam YL, Wittens CH. Mechanochemical ablation: status and
results. Phlebology 2013;28(Suppl 1):10-4.
95. Mohamed AH, Leung C, Wallace T, Smith G, Carradice D, Chetter I.
A randomized controlled trial of endovenous laser ablation versus
mechanochemical ablation with ClariVein in the management of
superﬁcial venous incompetence (LAMA trial). Ann Surg 2021;273:
e188-95.
96. Lam YL, Alozai T, Schreve MA, de Smet A, Vahl AC, Nagtzaam I, et al.
A multicenter, randomized, dose-ﬁnding study of mechanochemical ablation using ClariVein and liquid polidocanol for great
saphenous vein incompetence. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord
2022;10:856-64.e2.
97. Witte ME, Zeebregts CJ, de Borst GJ, Reijnen M, Boersma D.
Mechanochemical endovenous ablation of saphenous veins using
the ClariVein: a systematic review. Phlebology 2017;32:649-57.
98. Tessari L, Cavezzi A, Frullini A. Preliminary experience with a new
sclerosing foam in the treatment of varicose veins. Dermatol Surg
2001;27:58-60.
99. Brittenden J, Cotton SC, Elders A, Ramsay CR, Norrie J, Burr J, et al.
A randomized trial comparing treatments for varicose veins. N Engl
J Med 2014;371:1218-27.
100. Gibson K, Kabnick L; VarithenaÒ 013 Investigator Group.
A multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study to evaluate
the efﬁcacy and safety of VarithenaÒ (polidocanol endovenous
microfoam 1%) for symptomatic, visible varicose veins with saphenofemoral junction incompetence. Phlebology 2017;32:185-93.
101. Campos W Jr, Torres IO, da Silva ES, Casella IB, Puech-Leao P.
A prospective randomized study comparing polidocanol foam
sclerotherapy with surgical treatment of patients with primary
chronic venous insufﬁciency and ulcer. Ann Vasc Surg 2015;29:1128-35.
102. Carradice D, Mekako AI, Mazari FA, Samuel N, Hatﬁeld J, Chetter IC.
Clinical and technical outcomes from a randomized clinical trial of
endovenous laser ablation compared with conventional surgery for
great saphenous varicose veins. Br J Surg 2011;98:1117-23.
103. Carradice D, Mekako AI, Mazari FA, Samuel N, Hatﬁeld J, Chetter IC.
Randomized clinical trial of endovenous laser ablation compared
with conventional surgery for great saphenous varicose veins. Br J
Surg 2011;98:501-10.
104. Christenson JT, Gueddi S, Gemayel G, Bounameaux H. Prospective
randomized trial comparing endovenous laser ablation and surgery
for treatment of primary great saphenous varicose veins with a 2year follow-up. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:1234-41.
105. Darwood RJ, Theivacumar N, Dellagrammaticas D, Mavor AI,
Gough MJ. Randomized clinical trial comparing endovenous laser
ablation with surgery for the treatment of primary great saphenous
varicose veins. Br J Surg 2008;95:294-301.
106. de Medeiros CA, Luccas GC. Comparison of endovenous treatment
with an 810 nm laser versus conventional stripping of the great
saphenous vein in patients with primary varicose veins. Dermatol
Surg 2005;31:1685-94; discussion: 1694.

107. Figueiredo M, Araujo S, Barros N Jr, Miranda F Jr. Results of surgical
treatment compared with ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy
in patients with varicose veins: a prospective randomised study. Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;38:758-63.
108. Helmy ElKaffas K, ElKashef O, ElBaz W. Great saphenous vein radiofrequency ablation versus standard stripping in the management
of primary varicose veinsda randomized clinical trial. Angiology
2011;62:49-54.
109. Flessenkamper I, Hartmann M, Stenger D, Roll S. Endovenous laser
ablation with and without high ligation compared with high ligation and stripping in the treatment of great saphenous varicose
veins: initial results of a multicentre randomized controlled trial.
Phlebology 2013;28:16-23.
110. Gonzalez Canas E, Florit Lopez S, Vilagut RV, Guevara-Noriega KA,
Santos Espi M, Rios J, et al. A randomized controlled noninferiority
trial comparing radiofrequency with stripping and conservative
hemodynamic cure for venous insufﬁciency technique for insufﬁciency of the great saphenous vein. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat
Disord 2021;9:101-12.
111. Kushwaha JK, Gupta A, Yadav P, Sonkar AA. A comparative study to
evaluate early postoperative complications and short-term quality
of life assessment between stripping and endovenous laser therapy
in the treatment of chronic venous insufﬁciency patients: a study
from North India. Indian J Public Health Res Dev 2020;11:134-40.
112. Liao CJ, Song SH, Li T, Zhang Y, Zhang WD. Randomized clinical trial
of radiofrequency-induced thermotherapy combined with transilluminated powered phlebectomy versus high ligation and stripping for the treatment of lower limb varicose veins. J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2021;9:95-100.
113. Lurie F, Creton D, Eklof B, Kabnick LS, Kistner RL, Pichot O, et al.
Prospective randomized study of endovenous radiofrequency
obliteration (closure procedure) versus ligation and stripping in a
selected patient population (EVOLVeS study). J Vasc Surg 2003;38:
207-14.
114. Lurie F, Creton D, Eklof B, Kabnick LS, Kistner RL, Pichot O, et al.
Prospective randomised study of endovenous radiofrequency
obliteration (closure) versus ligation and vein stripping (EVOLVeS):
two-year follow-up. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;29:67-73.
115. Mekako AI, Hatﬁeld J, Bryce J, Lee D, McCollum PT, Chetter I.
A nonrandomised controlled trial of endovenous laser therapy and
surgery in the treatment of varicose veins. Ann Vasc Surg 2006;20:
451-7.
116. Mendes CA, Martins AA, Fukuda JM, Parente JB, Munia MA,
Fioranelli A, et al. Randomized trial of radiofrequency ablation
versus conventional surgery for superﬁcial venous insufﬁciency: if
you don’t tell, they won’t know. Clinics (Sao Paulo) 2016;71:650-6.
117. Nandhra S, El-sheikha J, Carradice D, Wallace T, Souroullas P,
Samuel N, et al. A randomized clinical trial of endovenous laser
ablation versus conventional surgery for small saphenous varicose
veins. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:741-6.
118. Perala J, Rautio T, Biancari F, Ohtonen P, Wiik H, Heikkinen T, et al.
Radiofrequency endovenous obliteration versus stripping of the long
saphenous vein in the management of primary varicose veins: 3-year
outcome of a randomized study. Ann Vasc Surg 2005;19:669-72.
119. Pronk P, Gauw SA, Mooij MC, Gaastra MT, Lawson JA, van
Goethem AR, et al. Randomised controlled trial comparing saphenofemoral ligation and stripping of the great saphenous vein with
endovenous laser ablation (980 nm) using local tumescent anaesthesia: one year results. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2010;40:649-56.
120. Rasmussen LH, Bjoern L, Lawaetz M, Blemings A, Lawaetz B, Eklof B.
Randomized trial comparing endovenous laser ablation of the
great saphenous vein with high ligation and stripping in patients
with varicose veins: short-term results. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:308-15.
121. Rasmussen LH, Bjoern L, Lawaetz M, Lawaetz B, Blemings A, Eklof B.
Randomised clinical trial comparing endovenous laser ablation
with stripping of the great saphenous vein: clinical outcome and
recurrence after 2 years. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2010;39:630-5.
122. Rasmussen L, Lawaetz M, Serup J, Bjoern L, Vennits B, Blemings A,
et al. Randomized clinical trial comparing endovenous laser ablation, radiofrequency ablation, foam sclerotherapy, and surgical
stripping for great saphenous varicose veins with 3-year follow-up.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2013;1:349-56.
123. Rass K, Frings N, Glowacki P, Hamsch C, Graber S, Vogt T, et al.
Comparable effectiveness of endovenous laser ablation and high

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

259

Volume 11, Number 2
ligation with stripping of the great saphenous vein: two-year results
of a randomized clinical trial (RELACS study). Arch Dermatol
2012;148:49-58.
124. Rautio T, Ohinmaa A, Perala J, Ohtonen P, Heikkinen T, Wiik H, et al.
Endovenous obliteration versus conventional stripping operation in
the treatment of primary varicose veins: a randomized controlled
trial with comparison of the costs. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:958-65.
125. Roopram AD, Lind MY, Van Brussel JP, Terlouw-Punt LC, Birnie E, De
Smet AA, et al. Endovenous laser ablation versus conventional surgery in the treatment of small saphenous vein incompetence:
short-term results of a multicenter randomized controlled trial.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2013;1:357-63.
126. Samuel N, Carradice D, Wallace T, Mekako A, Hatﬁeld J, Chetter I.
Randomized clinical trial of endovenous laser ablation versus conventional surgery for small saphenous varicose veins. Ann Surg
2013;257:419-26.
127. Sandhya PA, Mohil RS, Sricharan R. Randomised controlled study to
compare radiofrequency ablation with minimally invasive
ultrasound-guided non-ﬂush ligation and stripping of great
saphenous vein in the treatment of varicose veins. Ann R Coll Surg
Engl 2020;102:525-31.
128. Sincos IR, Baptista APW, Coelho Neto F, Labropoulos N, Alledi LB,
Marins EM, et al. Prospective randomized trial comparing radiofrequency ablation and complete saphenous vein stripping in patients with mild to moderate chronic venous disease with a 3-year
follow-up. Einstein (Sao Paulo) 2019;17:eAO4526.
129. Shadid N, Ceulen R, Nelemans P, Dirksen C, Veraart J, Schurink GW,
et al. Randomized clinical trial of ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy versus surgery for the incompetent great saphenous vein.
Br J Surg 2012;99:1062-70.
130. Stotter L, Schaaf I, Bockelbrink A. Comparative outcomes of radiofrequency endoluminal ablation, invagination stripping, and cryostripping in the treatment of great saphenous vein insufﬁciency.
Phlebology 2006;21:60-4.
131. Subramonia S, Lees T. Randomized clinical trial of radiofrequency
ablation or conventional high ligation and stripping for great
saphenous varicose veins. Br J Surg 2010;97:328-36.
132. Wright DDI, Gobin J, Bradbury A, Coleridge-Smith PD,
Spoelstra HAA, Berridge DC, et al. Varisolve polidocanol microfoam
compared with surgery or sclerotherapy in the management of
varicose veins in the presence of trunk vein incompetence: European randomized controlled trial. Phlebology 2006;21:180-90.
133. Biemans AA, Kockaert M, Akkersdijk GP, van den Bos RR, de
Maeseneer MG, Cuypers P, et al. Comparing endovenous laser
ablation, foam sclerotherapy, and conventional surgery for great
saphenous varicose veins. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:727-34.e1.
134. Rasmussen LH, Lawaetz M, Bjoern L, Vennits B, Blemings A, Eklof B.
Randomized clinical trial comparing endovenous laser ablation,
radiofrequency ablation, foam sclerotherapy and surgical stripping
for great saphenous varicose veins. Br J Surg 2011;98:1079-87.
135. van der Velden SK, Biemans AA, De Maeseneer MG, Kockaert MA,
Cuypers PW, Hollestein LM, et al. Five-year results of a randomized
clinical trial of conventional surgery, endovenous laser ablation and
ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy in patients with great
saphenous varicose veins. Br J Surg 2015;102:1184-94.
136. Venermo M, Saarinen J, Eskelinen E, Vahaaho S, Saarinen E, Railo M,
et al. Randomized clinical trial comparing surgery, endovenous
laser ablation and ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy for the
treatment of great saphenous varicose veins. Br J Surg 2016;103:
1438-44.
137. Basel H, Aydin C, Ay Y, Inan B, Ekim H, Goya C, et al. Endovenous
laser ablation (EVLA) versus high ligation and striping (HL/S): twoyears follow up. East J Med 2012;17:83-7.
138. Carradice D, Samuel N, Wallace T, Mazari FA, Hatﬁeld J, Chetter I.
Comparing the treatment response of great saphenous and small
saphenous vein incompetence following surgery and endovenous
laser ablation: a retrospective cohort study. Phlebology 2012;27:128-34.
139. Lakhwani MN, Dadlani NI, Wong YC. 980-nm laser therapy versus
varicose vein surgery in racially diverse Penang, Malaysia. ANZ J Surg
2009;79:352-7.
140. Leopardi M, Salerno A, Dante A, Coﬁni V, Necozione S, Ventura M.
Endovenous laser ablation with 1,470-nm diode with tumescence
anesthesia and saphenofemoral ligation: propensity score match
comparison. Ann Vasc Surg 2019;58:302-8.

141. Miyazaki K, Nishibe T, Sata F, Murashita T, Kudo FA, Miyazaki YJ, et al.
Long-term results of treatments for varicose veins due to greater
saphenous vein insufﬁciency. Int Angiol 2005;24:282-6.
142. Ran F, Shi Y, Qiao T, Shang T, Liu Z, Liu CJ. Comparison of foam
sclerotherapy alone or combined with stripping of the great saphenous vein for treating varicose veins. Dermatol Surg 2017;43:541-7.
143. Siribumrungwong B, Noorit P, Wilasrusmee C, Leelahavarong P,
Thakkinstian A, Teerawattananon Y. Cost-utility analysis of great
saphenous vein ablation with radiofrequency, foam and surgery in the
emerging health-care setting of Thailand. Phlebology 2016;31:573-81.
144. Siribumrungwong B, Noorit P, Wilasrusmee C, Teerawattananon Y,
Thakkinstian A. Quality of life after great saphenous vein ablation in
Thai patients with great saphenous vein reﬂux. Asian J Surg 2017;40:
295-300.
145. Solís J, Ribé L, Portero J, Rio J. Stripping saphenectomy, CHIVA and
laser ablation for the treatment of the saphenous vein insufﬁciency.
Ambul Surg 2009;15:11-4.
146. Theivacumar NS, Darwood R, Gough MJ. Neovascularisation and
recurrence 2 years after varicose vein treatment for saphenofemoral and great saphenous vein reﬂux: a comparison of surgery
and endovenous laser ablation. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;38:
203-7.
147. Tonev AO, Genadiev SG, Dimitrov SG, Zahariev TT, Nachev GK.
A retrospective study of 100 patients with varicose veins treated
with radiofrequency ablation and stripping. Phlebolymphology
2013;20:150-4.
148. Toregeani JF, Rocha AST, Kimura CJ, Araújo RAG, Kawai AK,
Rotta LS, et al. Radiofrequency thermal ablation versus conventional saphenectomy. J Vasc Bras 2015;14:4-9.
149. Vuylsteke M, Van den Bussche D, Audenaert E, Lissens P. Endovenous laser obliteration for the treatment of primary varicose veins.
Phlebology 2006;21:80-7.
150. Ay Y, Gunes E, Turkkolu ST, Selcuk E, Calim M, Akal R, et al.
Comparative efﬁcacy and life quality effects of surgical stripping,
radiofrequency ablation, and cyanoacrylate embolization in patients undergoing treatment for great saphenous vein insufﬁciency.
Phlebology 2021;36:54-62.
151. Kubat E, Unal CS, Geldi O, Cetin E, Keskin A. What is the optimal
treatment technique for great saphenous vein diameter of $10
mm? Comparison of ﬁve different approaches. Acta Chir Belg
2021;121:94-101.
152. Vemulapalli S, Parikh K, Coeytaux R, Hasselblad V, McBroom A,
Johnston A, et al. Systematic review and meta-analysis of endovascular and surgical revascularization for patients with chronic
lower extremity venous insufﬁciency and varicose veins. Am Heart J
2018;196:131-43.
153. Deak ST. Treatment of superﬁcial venous insufﬁciency in a large
patient cohort with retrograde administration of ultrasound-guided
polidocanol endovenous microfoam versus endovenous laser
ablation. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:999-1006.e2.
154. Jimenez JC, Lawrence PF, Pavlyha M, Farley SM, Rigberg DA,
DeRubertis BG, et al. Endovenous microfoam ablation of below
knee superﬁcial truncal veins is safe and effective in patients with
prior saphenous treatment across a wide range of CEAP classes.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:390-4.
155. Kim PS, Elias S, Gasparis A, Labropoulos N. Results of polidocanol
endovenous microfoam in clinical practice. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2021;9:122-7.
156. Gohel MS, Epstein DM, Davies AH. Cost-effectiveness of traditional
and endovenous treatments for varicose veins. Br J Surg 2010;97:
1815-23.
157. Poder TG, Fisette JF, Bedard SK, Despatis MA. Is radiofrequency
ablation of varicose veins a valuable option? A systematic review of
the literature with a cost analysis. Can J Surg 2018;61:128-38.
158. Garagozlo C, Kadri O, Atalla M, Polanco F, Massaband A, Coey J, et al.
The anatomical relationship between the sural nerve and small
saphenous vein: an ultrasound study of healthy participants. Clin
Anat 2019;32:277-81.
159. Mura S, De Biasio F, Zingaretti N, Scalise A, Parodi PC. Common
peroneal nerve injury related to small saphenous vein surgery:
report of 2 cases and review of the literature. Case Rep Neurol
2021;13:24-30.
160. Cho S, Joh JH. Cyanoacrylate closure of small saphenous vein
insufﬁciency. Dermatol Surg 2021;47:381-4.

260

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

161. Apruzzi L, Bilman V, Ardita V, Favia N, Saracino C, Chiesa R, et al.
Comparison of mechanochemical ablation versus ligation and
stripping for the treatment of incompetent small saphenous vein.
Phlebology 2022;37:48-54.
162. Kubat E, Unal CS, Geldi O, Cetin E, Keskin A, Karapinar K. Comparison of different approaches to small saphenous vein reﬂux treatment: a retrospective study in two centers. Sao Paulo Med J
2020;138:98-105.
163. Boersma D, Kornmann VN, van Eekeren RR, Tromp E, Unlu C,
Reijnen MM, et al. Treatment modalities for small saphenous vein
insufﬁciency: systematic review and meta-analysis. J Endovasc Ther
2016;23:199-211.
164. Yuce I, Oguzkurt L, Eren S, Levent A, Kantarci M, Yalcin A, et al.
Assessment of posterior accessory great saphenous vein of the leg
using ultrasonography: a preliminary study. Surg Radiol Anat
2016;38:123-6.
165. Choi BS, Byun GY, Hwang SB, Koo BH, Lee SR. Long-segment hypoplasia of great saphenous vein with posterior accessory saphenous vein as a connecting vein: a case report. J Surg Case Rep
2017;2017:rjx058.
166. Schul MW, Schloerke B, Gomes GM. The reﬂuxing anterior accessory
saphenous vein demonstrates similar clinical severity when
compared to the reﬂuxing great saphenous vein. Phlebology
2016;31:654-9.
167. Schul MW, Vayuvegula S, Keaton TJ. The clinical relevance of anterior accessory great saphenous vein reﬂux. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2020;8:1014-20.
168. Baccellieri D, Ardita V, Carta N, Melissano G, Chiesa R. Anterior
accessory saphenous vein conﬂuence anatomy at the saphenofemoral junction as risk factor for varicose veins recurrence after
great saphenous vein radiofrequency thermal ablation. Int Angiol
2020;39:105-11.
169. Cavallini A, Marcer D, Ferrari Rufﬁno S. Endovenous treatment of
incompetent anterior accessory saphenous veins with a 1540 nm
diode laser. Int Angiol 2015;34:243-9.
170. Mishra MK, Soni RK, Mohil RS, Sinha A. Comparative study of
outcome of duplex ultrasound-guided, catheter-directed foam
sclerotherapy and radio-frequency ablation in the management of
great saphenous varicose veins. Indian J Surg 2016;78:375-81.
171. Bootun R, Lane TR, Dharmarajah B, Lim CS, Najem M, Renton S,
et al. Intra-procedural pain score in a randomised controlled trial
comparing mechanochemical ablation to radiofrequency ablation:
the Multicentre Veneﬁt versus ClariVeinÒ for varicose veins trial.
Phlebology 2016;31:61-5.
172. Calik ES, Arslan U, Erkut B. Ablation therapy with cyanoacrylate glue
and laser for reﬂuxing great saphenous veinsda prospective randomised study. Vasa 2019;48:405-12.
173. Gibson K, Morrison N, Kolluri R, Vasquez M, Weiss R, Cher D, et al.
Twenty-four month results from a randomized trial of cyanoacrylate
closure versus radiofrequency ablation for the treatment of
incompetent great saphenous veins. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat
Disord 2018;6:606-13.
174. Holewijn S, van Eekeren R, Vahl A, de Vries J, Reijnen M; MARADONA Study Group. Two-year results of a multicenter randomized
controlled trial comparing mechanochemical endovenous ablation
to radiofrequency ablation in the treatment of primary great
saphenous vein incompetence (MARADONA trial). J Vasc Surg
Venous Lymphat Disord 2019;7:364-74.
175. Lane T, Bootun R, Dharmarajah B, Lim CS, Najem M, Renton S, et al.
A multi-centre randomised controlled trial comparing radiofrequency and mechanical occlusion chemically assisted ablation
of varicose veinsdﬁnal results of the Veneﬁt versus Clarivein for
varicose veins trial. Phlebology 2017;32:89-98.
176. Lattimer CR, Azzam M, Kalodiki E, Shawish E, Trueman P,
Geroulakos G. Cost and effectiveness of laser with phlebectomies
compared with foam sclerotherapy in superﬁcial venous insufﬁciency: early results of a randomised controlled trial. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2012;43:594-600.
177. Lattimer CR, Kalodiki E, Azzam M, Makris GC, Somiayajulu S,
Geroulakos G. Interim results on abolishing reﬂux alongside a randomized clinical trial on laser ablation with phlebectomies versus
foam sclerotherapy. Int Angiol 2013;32:394-403.
178. Morrison N, Kolluri R, Vasquez M, Madsen M, Jones A, Gibson K.
Comparison of cyanoacrylate closure and radiofrequency ablation

for the treatment of incompetent great saphenous veins: 36-month
outcomes of the VeClose randomized controlled trial. Phlebology
2019;34:380-90.
179. Morrison N, Gibson K, Vasquez M, Weiss R, Cher D, Madsen M, et al.
VeClose trial 12-month outcomes of cyanoacrylate closure versus
radiofrequency ablation for incompetent great saphenous veins.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2017;5:321-30.
180. Morrison N, Gibson K, McEnroe S, Goldman M, King T, Weiss R, et al.
Randomized trial comparing cyanoacrylate embolization and
radiofrequency ablation for incompetent great saphenous veins
(VeClose). J Vasc Surg 2015;61:985-94.
181. Rai A, Porsalman M, Khatony A, Sobhiyeh M. Comparison of foam
sclerotherapy versus radiofrequency ablation in the treatment of
primary varicose veins due to incompetent great saphenous vein:
randomized clinical trial. J Vasc Nurs 2019;37:226-31.
182. Tawﬁk AM, Sorour WA, El-Laboudy ME. Laser ablation versus
mechanochemical ablation in the treatment of primary varicose
veins: a randomized clinical trial. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat
Disord 2020;8:211-5.
183. Bademci MS, Kocaaslan C, Aldag M, Yalvac ESD, Oztekin A, Bulut N, et al.
Single-center retrospective review of early outcomes of radiofrequency
ablation versus cyanoacrylate ablation of isolated great saphenous vein
insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2019;7:480-5.
 lan O. A comparison of NBCA and RFA in treating varicose
184. Bozog
veins in the same patient. E J Cardiovasc Med 2020;8:45-50.
185. Gonzalez-Zeh R, Armisen R, Barahona S. Endovenous laser and
echo-guided foam ablation in great saphenous vein reﬂux: one-year
follow-up results. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:940-6.
186. Koramaz I, El Kilic H, Gokalp F, Bitargil M, Bektas N, Engin E, et al.
Ablation of the great saphenous vein with nontumescent n-butyl
cyanoacrylate versus endovenous laser therapy. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2017;5:210-5.
187. McGuinness B, Elias F, Ali KP, Ahmad MS, Namburi J, Chan B, et al.
A comparison of duplex ultrasound ﬁndings after cyanoacrylate
embolization versus endovenous laser ablation of the great
saphenous vein. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2019;7:824-31.
188. Ovali C, Sevin MB. Twelve-month efﬁcacy and complications of
cyanoacrylate embolization compared with radiofrequency ablation for incompetent great saphenous veins. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2019;7:210-6.
189. van Eekeren RR, Boersma D, Konijn V, de Vries JP, Reijnen MM.
Postoperative pain and early quality of life after radiofrequency
ablation and mechanochemical endovenous ablation of incompetent great saphenous veins. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:445-50.
190. Yang GK, Parapini M, Gagnon J, Chen JC. Comparison of cyanoacrylate embolization and radiofrequency ablation for the treatment
of varicose veins. Phlebology 2019;34:278-83.
191. Vahaaho S, Halmesmaki K, Mahmoud O, Alback A, Noronen K,
Venermo M. Three-year results of a randomized controlled trial
comparing mechanochemical and thermal ablation in the treatment of insufﬁcient great saphenous veins. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2021;9:652-9.
192. Vos CG, Unlu C, Bosma J, van Vlijmen CJ, de Nie AJ, Schreve MA.
A systematic review and meta-analysis of two novel techniques of
nonthermal endovenous ablation of the great saphenous vein.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2017;5:880-96.
193. Kolluri R, Chung J, Kim S, Nath N, Bhalla BB, Jain T, et al. Network
meta-analysis to compare VenaSeal with other superﬁcial venous
therapies for chronic venous insufﬁciency. J Vasc Surg Venous
Lymphat Disord 2020;8:472-81.e3.
194. Parsi K, Roberts S, Kang M, Benson S, Baker L, Berman I, et al.
Cyanoacrylate closure for peripheral veins: consensus document of
the Australasian College of Phlebology. Phlebology 2020;35:153-75.
195. Sussman MS, Ryon EL, Bahga A, Almeida S, Almeida JI. A systematic
review of the treatment of residual below the knee venous reﬂux
after endovenous thermal ablation of the great saphenous vein.
J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:233-40.
196. Gifford SM, Kalra M, Gloviczki P, Friese J, Bjarnason H, Duncan A,
et al. Reﬂux in the below-knee great saphenous vein can be safely
treated with endovenous ablation. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat
Disord 2013;1:112.
197. Theivacumar NS, Gough MJ. Endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) to
treat recurrent varicose veins. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2011;41:
691-6.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

261

Volume 11, Number 2
198. Mozes G, Gloviczki P, Menawat SS, Fisher DR, Carmichael SW,
Kadar A. Surgical anatomy for endoscopic subfascial division of
perforating veins. J Vasc Surg 1996;24:800-8.
199. Mozes G, Gloviczki P, Kadar A, Carmichael SW. Surgical anatomy of
perforating veins. In: Gloviczki P, Bergan JJ, editors. Atlas of Endoscopic Perforator Vein Surgery. 1st ed. Springer-Verlag; 1998:17-28.
200. Kianifard B, Holdstock J, Allen C, Smith C, Price B, Whiteley MS.
Randomized clinical trial of the effect of adding subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery to standard great saphenous vein stripping. Br J Surg 2007;94:1075-80.
201. Park SW, Hwang JJ, Yun IJ, Lee SA, Kim JS, Chang SH, et al. Randomized clinical trial comparing two methods for endovenous
laser ablation of incompetent perforator veins in thigh and great
saphenous vein without evidence of saphenofemoral reﬂux. Dermatol Surg 2012;38:640-6.
202. Fitridge RA, Dunlop C, Raptis S, Thompson MM, Leppard P,
Quigley F. A prospective randomized trial evaluating the haemodynamic role of incompetent calf perforating veins. Aust N Z J Surg
1999;69:214-6.
203. Koroglu M, Eris HN, Aktas AR, Kayan M, Yesildag A, Cetin M, et al.
Endovenous laser ablation and foam sclerotherapy for varicose
veins: does the presence of perforating vein insufﬁciency affect the
treatment outcome? Acta Radiol 2011;52:278-84.
204. van Neer P, Kessels A, de Haan E, Estourgie R, Veraart J, Lijnen R,
et al. Residual varicose veins below the knee after varicose vein
surgery are not related to incompetent perforating veins. J Vasc
Surg 2006;44:1051-4.
205. van Rij AM, Jiang P, Solomon C, Christie RA, Hill GB. Recurrence
after varicose vein surgery: a prospective long-term clinical study
with duplex ultrasound scanning and air plethysmography. J Vasc
Surg 2003;38:935-43.
206. Stuart WP, Adam DJ, Allan PL, Ruckley CV, Bradbury AW. Saphenous surgery does not correct perforator incompetence in the
presence of deep venous reﬂux. J Vasc Surg 1998;28:834-8.
207. Harlander-Locke M, Jimenez JC, Lawrence PF, Derubertis BG,
Rigberg DA, Gelabert HA. Endovenous ablation with concomitant
phlebectomy is a safe and effective method of treatment for
symptomatic patients with axial reﬂux and large incompetent
tributaries. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:166-72.
208. Brown CS, Obi AT, Cronenwett JL, Kabnick L, Wakeﬁeld TW,
Osborne NH. Outcomes after truncal ablation with or without

concomitant phlebectomy for isolated symptomatic varicose veins
(C2 disease). J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2021;9:369-76.
209. Conway RG, Almeida JI, Kabnick L, Wakeﬁeld TW, Buchwald AG,
Lal BK. Clinical response to combination therapy in the treatment
of varicose veins. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2020;8:216-23.
210. Lane TR, Kelleher D, Shepherd AC, Franklin IJ, Davies AH. Ambulatory varicosity avulsion later or synchronized (AVULS): a randomized
clinical trial. Ann Surg 2015;261:654-61.
211. Monahan DL. Can phlebectomy be deferred in the treatment of
varicose veins? J Vasc Surg 2005;42:1145-9.
212. Welch HJ. Endovenous ablation of the great saphenous vein may
avert phlebectomy for branch varicose veins. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:
601-5.
213. Carradice D, Mekako AI, Hatﬁeld J, Chetter IC. Randomized clinical
trial of concomitant or sequential phlebectomy after endovenous
laser therapy for varicose veins. Br J Surg 2009;96:369-75.
214. El-Sheikha J, Nandhra S, Carradice D, Wallace T, Samuel N,
Smith GE, et al. Clinical outcomes and quality of life 5 years after a
randomized trial of concomitant or sequential phlebectomy
following endovenous laser ablation for varicose veins. Br J Surg
2014;101:1093-7.
215. Hager ES, Ozvath KJ, Dillavou ED. Evidence summary of combined
saphenous ablation and treatment of varicosities versus staged
phlebectomy. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2017;5:134-7.
216. Aherne TM, Ryan EJ, Boland MR, McKevitt K, Hassanin A,
Tubassam M, et al. Concomitant vs. staged treatment of varicose
tributaries as an adjunct to endovenous ablation: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2020;60:430-42.
217. Joh JH, Lee T, Byun SJ, Cho S, Park HS, Yun WS, Yang SS, Kim H,
Kim WS, Jung IM, et al. A multicenter randomized controlled trial of
cyanoacrylate closure and surgical stripping for incompetent great
saphenous veins. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2022;10:353-9.

Submitted Sep 9, 2022; accepted Sep 23, 2022.

Additional material for this article may be found online
at www.jvsvenous.org.

261.e1

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Supplementary Table I (online only). Terminology (most frequently used anatomic, clinical, physiologic, and descriptive
venous terms)
Term

Deﬁnition

Axial reﬂux

Uninterrupted retrograde venous ﬂow from groin to calf; superﬁcial reﬂux conﬁned to superﬁcial
venous system; deep reﬂux conﬁned to deep venous system; combined reﬂux involves any
combination of the three main venous systems (superﬁcial, deep, perforating)

Chronic venous disorders

Includes full spectrum of morphologic and functional abnormalities of venous system

Chronic venous disease

Morphologic and functional abnormalities of venous system of long duration manifested by
symptoms or signs, or both, indicating need for investigation and/or care

Chronic venous insufﬁciency

Reserved for advanced chronic venous disease (CEAP class C3-C6) applied to functional
abnormalities of venous system producing edema, skin changes, or venous ulcers

Congenital venous reﬂux

Retrograde venous ﬂow of abnormal duration in any venous segment, caused by the absence or
abnormal development of venous valves

Mechanochemical ablation
(Mocca procedure)

A nontumescent, nonthermal technique to ablate superﬁcial truncal veins; an oscillating rotating
wire is used to disrupt endothelial lining of target veins, allowing for simultaneous injection of
sclerosant to penetrate deeper layers of vein wall, ultimately resulting in vein sclerosis and
obstruction

Miniphlebectomy

Removal of a vein segment through a small skin incision or stab wound; synonyms include
phlebectomy, ambulatory phlebectomy, microphlebectomy, and stab phlebectomy

Nontruncal vein

Unnamed or nonlongitudinal saphenous or deep vein

Post-thrombotic syndrome

Chronic venous symptoms and/or signs secondary to deep vein thrombosis and its sequelae

Primary venous reﬂux

Retrograde venous ﬂow of abnormal duration in any venous segment, caused by idiopathic
venous valve dysfunction

Reticular veins

Dilated bluish subdermal veins ranging from 1 to <3 mm in diameter and usually tortuous; this
excludes normal visible veins in people with thin, transparent skin; synonyms include blue
veins, subdermal varices, and venulectasias; in CEAP classiﬁcation, reticular veins are part of C1
clinical class

Secondary venous reﬂux

Retrograde venous ﬂow of abnormal duration in any venous segment, caused by thrombosis,
trauma, or mechanical, thermal, or chemical etiologies

Sclerotherapy

Obliteration of vein by chemical introduction (liquid, physician-generated foam, or polidocanol
endovenous microfoam)

Truncal vein

Named longitudinal saphenous or deep veins

Diseased tributaries

Varicose veins or telangiectasias associated with vein in question

Stripping

Removal of long vein segment, usually most of great saphenous or small saphenous vein using a
device

Telangiectasia

Small, dilated, ﬂat, thin-walled, blue or red veins <1 mm in diameter seen near skin surface;
numerous telangiectasias near foot and ankle are termed corona phlebectatica; commonly
termed spider veins, they are distinguished from reticular veins by having no proﬁle; however,
telangiectasia, spider veins, and reticular veins are all classiﬁed as C1 using the CEAP
classiﬁcation

Tessari technique

Method of producing foam for immediate use by agitating liquid sclerosant with a gas at a
predeﬁned ratio using two interconnected syringes, which are pumped back and forth rapidly
w10 times until compact foam with microscopic bubbles is produced (named after L. Tessari,
Italy)

Varicose veins

Subcutaneous dilated vein $3 mm in diameter when measured in upright position; could involve
saphenous veins, saphenous tributaries, or nonsaphenous superﬁcial leg veins; varicose veins
will usually be tortuous, but tubular saphenous veins with demonstrated reﬂux can be
classiﬁed as varicose veins

Venous ablation

Removal, occlusion, or destruction of a vein by mechanical, thermal, or chemical means

Venous compression

Narrowing or occlusion of venous lumen as a result of extraluminal pressure

Venous occlusion

Total obliteration of venous lumen

Venous obstruction

Partial or total blockage to venous ﬂow

Venous reﬂux

Retrograde venous ﬂow of abnormal duration in any venous segment

Venous valvular incompetence

Venous valve dysfunction resulting in retrograde venous ﬂow of abnormal duration

CEAP, Clinical Class, Etiology, Anatomy, Pathology.

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

Gloviczki et al

261.e2

Volume 11, Number 2

Supplementary Table II (online only). Evidence to decision framework: duplex ultrasound (DU) scanning vs hand-held
Doppler ultrasound (HHD) evaluation or other diagnostic methods
Domain

Evidence/panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable anticipated
effects of strategy?

DU changed intervention plan for 10%-25% of
cases; HHD had sensitivity only of 51%-77%

Large

How substantial are undesirable
anticipated effects?

No known undesirable effects; DU is a
noninvasive, safe, and convenient diagnostic
test

Trivial

Do the desirable effects outweigh the
undesirable effects?

Clear beneﬁts with DU and no undesirable
effects

Yes

Is there important uncertainty or variability
about how much people value the main
outcomes?

No available direct data

What is overall certainty of evidence of
effects?

In addition to available data, the
overwhelming opinion of experts supports
DU as evaluation method of choice for
patients with varicose veins

Moderate

How large are resource requirements
associated with intervention?

DU equipment already available in most vein
clinics, and cost is likely small relative to
overall cost of care

Small costs

How large is incremental cost relative to
net beneﬁt?

Strategy of DU evaluation already
implemented in vein clinics; the beneﬁt of
more precise diagnosis with DU could bring
only savings, although no cost-effectiveness
analysis is available

Unknown

What would be effects on health
inequities?

No available data

Unknown

Is option acceptable to key stakeholders?

Clear agreement also present among most
experts and practitioners about evaluating
patients with DU

Yes

Is option feasible to implement?

Because DU equipment already available at
most vein clinics, implementation should
not be difﬁcult

Yes

Probably no important
uncertainty or
variability

261.e3

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Supplementary Table III (online only). Evidence to decision framework: endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) vs high ligation
and stripping (HL&S) vs compression stockings in patients with symptomatic varicose veins and axial reﬂux in superﬁcial
truncal veins
Domain

Evidence/panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable anticipated
effects of the strategy?

Decrease in perioperative pain and earlier
return to normal activity and reduced risk of
varicosities at 5 years are more likely with
endovenous venous intervention; HL&S was
associated with higher anatomic closure
rates at 30 days and 5 years compared with
RFA and UGFS, with no signiﬁcant difference
compared with EVLA at 5 years

Moderate

How substantial are the undesirable
anticipated effects?

Increased risk of pigmentation and some
procedural pain are expected; need for
analgesia is higher with ligation and
stripping

Small

Do the desirable effects outweigh the
undesirable effects?

For most patients, the desirable effects will
outweigh the undesirable effects

Yes

Is there important uncertainty or variability
about how much people value the main
outcomes?

Studies on patient preference demonstrate
signiﬁcant heterogeneity in patient
preferences, with one study reporting that
most patients are not concerned about
missing work, and another reporting that
cost was the most important component,
with variable responses regarding ranking of
discomfort and long-term risk of recurrence;
given that superﬁcial venous disease is a
chronic disease and a consensus is lacking
regarding patient preference, the
committee prioritized QoL at 5 years and
recurrence/need for reintervention over
short-term results

Possibly
important
uncertainty or
variability

What is the overall certainty of the
evidence of effects?

Moderate certainty for venous intervention vs
compression stockings; low certainty for
head-to-head comparisons

Moderate

How large are the resource requirements
associated with the intervention?

The type of insurance will often drive costs and
out-of-pocket expenses; out-of-pocket
procedural costs have varied widely

Unknown

How large is the incremental cost relative
to the net beneﬁt?

One study from the United Kingdom showed
that endovenous therapies were most cost
effective, followed by UGFS, HL&S, and
conservative therapy

Unknown

What would be the effect on health
inequities?

For patients without access, or for whom the
cost of endovenous therapy is prohibitive,
HL&S is an acceptable strategy

Unknown

Is the option acceptable to key
stakeholders?

All studies showed either strategy is
acceptable compared with no therapy;
individuals who place high priority on longterm outcomes would likely not choose
UGFS

Probably yes

Is the option feasible to implement?

Yes, it is a widely adopted technology; HL&S
can be used if technology or expertise for
endovenous ablation is not available or
venous anatomy precludes endovenous
treatment

Probably yes

RFA, Radiofrequency ablation; QoL, quality of life; UGFS, ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy.

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

261.e4

Volume 11, Number 2

Supplementary Table IV (online only). Evidence to decision framework: thermal ablation vs nonthermal ablation of
saphenous veins
Domain

Evidence/panel input

Judgment

How substantial are desirable anticipated
effects of the strategy?

No clear difference present in terms of outcomes
between thermal and nonthermal vein ablation
because the data are indeterminate and the
nonthermal group is heterogeneous

Unknown

How substantial are the undesirable
anticipated effects?

Unclear difference in outcomes; thermal
interventions could be associated with lower
generic QoL scores and an increased risk of adverse
events compared with CAC or n-butyl
cyanoacrylate, but the evidence is uncertain

Small

Do the desirable effects outweigh the
undesirable effects?

e

Probably no

Is there important uncertainty or variability
about how much people value the main
outcomes?

Uncertainty exists regarding the value patients place
on procedural pain vs closure rates or long-term
QoL; these leave the available expertise of the
treating physician and preference of the patient as
important components of the decision

Possibly important
uncertainty or
variability

What is the overall certainty of the evidence
of effects?

e

Very low when
comparing the two
strategies; moderate
for either strategy

Unknown

Unknown

How large is the incremental cost relative to
the net beneﬁt?

Some data suggest that CAC might not be as costeffective as other ablation techniques; cost factors
do remain important in some settings and are an
important part of the decision-making process

Unknown

What would be the effect on health
inequities?

No data available; allowing physicians and patients
to determine which might be the better route
should help minimize inequity

Unknown

Is the option acceptable to key stakeholders?

No data available

Probably yes

Is the option feasible to implement?

Prior RCTs do suggest that choosing between
thermal and nonthermal options is often feasible

Probably yes

How large are the resource requirements
associated with the intervention?

CAC, Cyanoacrylate closure; QoL, quality of life; RCT, randomized controlled trial.

261.e5

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
March 2023

Supplementary Table V (online only). Evidence to decision framework: treatment of incompetent perforator veins (IPVs) in
patients with C2 disease vs no treatment
Domain

Evidence/panel input

Judgment

How substantial are the desirable
anticipated effects of the strategy?

Not substantial; intervention for IPVs does not improve
hemodynamic status, clinical presentation, or QoL
compared with treatment of superﬁcial reﬂux alone;
treatment, however, might have a role for patients
with persistent symptoms after superﬁcial venous
surgery with persistent superﬁcial reﬂux or initial
presence of deep venous reﬂux

Trivial

How substantial are the undesirable
anticipated effects?

Not substantial; undesirable effects such as venous
thrombotic events, skin/soft tissue injury, and nerve
injury are possible

Trivial

Do the desirable effects outweigh the
undesirable effects?

They do not, given the lack of signiﬁcant evidence to
proceed with intervention for IPVs in C2 disease and
the potential for undesirable effects

Probably no

Is there important uncertainty or
variability about how much people
value the main outcomes?

Unknown; intervention for IPV treatment in C2 disease
might result in over- or undertreatment

Unknown

What is the overall certainty of the
evidence of effects?

Data are derived from many prospective cohort studies,
with limited data from randomized clinical trials

Low

How large are the resource
requirements associated with the
intervention?

It could lead to added costs to the index procedure

Moderate costs

How large is the incremental cost
relative to the net beneﬁt?

Unknown

Unknown

What would be the impact on health
inequities?

Unknown

Unknown

Is the option acceptable to key
stakeholders?

Unknown

Unknown

Although it might be feasible, routine treatment of IPVs
in patients with C2 disease does not have a
documented beneﬁt

Probably yes

Is the option feasible to implement?

CAC, Cyanoacrylate closure.

Gloviczki et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders

261.e6

Volume 11, Number 2

Supplementary Table VI (online only). Evidence to decision framework: concomitant phlebectomy with saphenous vein
ablation vs staged phlebectomy after saphenous vein ablation
Domain

Evidence/panel input

Judgment

How substantial are the desirable anticipated
effects of the strategy?

Important advantages exist to treating all
lower extremity varicose veins in one setting

Moderate

How substantial are the undesirable
anticipated effects?

Likely, a small increase in postoperative pain;
50%-70% of patients would not need
subsequent phlebectomy due to symptom
relief after saphenous vein ablation

Moderate

Do the desirable effects outweigh the
undesirable effects?

For some patients, the desirable effects would
outweigh the undesirable effects; when CT
was compared to ablation only, multivariate
analysis revealed a signiﬁcant reduction in
VCSSs for the CT vs UT groups (P ¼ .002)

Probably yes

Is there important uncertainty or variability
about how much people value the main
outcomes?

Short-term results conﬁrmed that
concomitant phlebectomy prolonged the
ablation procedure but reduced the need
for secondary procedures and signiﬁcantly
improved QoL; 5-year results of same RCT
showed excellent and similar clinical results
and QoL scores in both groups; however,
concomitant treatment was associated with
optimal improvement in both QoL and
severity of clinical disease; although both
strategies are acceptable, concomitant
procedures (CT) were more often chosen by
the patient

Probably not
important
uncertainty or
variability

What is the overall certainty of the evidence
of effects?

e

Low

How large are the resource requirements
associated with the intervention?

One study showed CT procedure time was
signiﬁcantly longer than that for UT alone
(65 minutes vs 45 minutes; P ¼ .002); from
the panel’s practice, patient satisfaction with
CT seemed to outweigh added time
required

Small costs

How large is the incremental cost relative to
the net beneﬁt?

One study suggested nonsigniﬁcance
between CT vs UT in return to work (10 vs
3 days, respectively) and return to normal
activities (8 vs 2 days, respectively); this was
likely a type 2 error because only 50 patients
were randomized; from the practice of the
panel, most patients will not be concerned
with the additional recovery time

Unknown

What would be the effect on health
inequities?

Unknown

Unknown

Is the option acceptable to key stakeholders?

All studies showed either strategy is
acceptable, depending on patient
preference; from the practice of the panel,
more patients will choose CT than UT

Probably yes

Is the option feasible to implement?

All studies showed it is feasible to implement;
from the practice of the panel, the option
would be easy to implement

Probably yes

CT, Combined treatment; RCT, randomized controlled trial; UT, unimodal treatment; VCSS, venous clinical severity score.

Update
Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders
Volume 12, Issue 2, March 2024, Page
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvsv.2023.101719

CORRECTION
In the March 2023 issue of the Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders, the article by Gloviczki
et al (Gloviczki P, Lawrence PF, Wasan SM, et al. The 2022 Society for Vascular Surgery, American Venous Forum, and
American Vein and Lymphatic Society clinical practice guidelines for the management of varicose veins of the
lower extremities. Part I. Duplex Scanning and Treatment of Superﬁcial Truncal Reﬂux: Endorsed by the Society
for Vascular Medicine and the International Union of Phlebology. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord 2023;11:23161) contained an error.
On page 237 of the printed article, the implementation remark 1.1.b on the deﬁnition of reﬂux erroneously contained
two sentences on management of junctional reﬂux. Management of junctional reﬂux is addressed in Part II of the
guidelines, in Consensus Statement 5.2.3.
The two sentences that need to be removed read as follows: “Complete axial reﬂux in a symptomatic patient is
pathognomonic, but junctional reﬂux alone is an indication for ablation. Conversely, a competent junction may
be associated with an incompetent, pathologic GSV distal to the terminal valve and the source of varicosity in
such patients can be either pelvic vein incompetence or an incompetent thigh perforating vein.”

1

