SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY PRACTICE GUIDELINES
Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice guidelines of thoracic
endovascular aortic repair for descending thoracic aortic aneurysms
Gilbert R. Upchurch Jr, MD,a Guillermo A. Escobar, MD,b Ali Azizzadeh, MD,c Adam W. Beck, MD,d
Mark F. Conrad, MD,e Jon S. Matsumura, MD,f Mohammad H. Murad, MD,g
R. Jason Perry, MD,h Michael J. Singh, MD,i Ravi K. Veeraswamy, MD,j and Grace J. Wang, MD,k Gainesville, Fla;
Atlanta, Ga; Los Angeles, Calif; Birmingham, Ala; Boston, Mass; Madison, Wisc; Rochester, Minn; Seattle, Wash; Pittsburgh
and Philadelphia, Pa; and Charleston, SC

ABSTRACT
Thoracic aortic diseases, including disease of the descending thoracic aorta (DTA), are signiﬁcant causes of death in the
United States. Open repair of the DTA is a physiologically impactful operation with relatively high rates of mortality,
paraplegia, and renal failure. Thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) has revolutionized treatment of the DTA and
has largely supplanted open repair because of lower morbidity and mortality. These Society for Vascular Surgery Practice
Guidelines are applicable to the use of TEVAR for descending thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) as well as for other rarer
pathologic processes of the DTA. Management of aortic dissections and traumatic injuries will be discussed in separate
Society for Vascular Surgery documents. In general, there is a lack of high-quality evidence across all TAA diseases,
highlighting the need for better comparative effectiveness research. Yet, large single-center experiences, administrative
databases, and meta-analyses have consistently reported beneﬁcial effects of TEVAR over open repair, especially in the
setting of rupture. Many of the strongest recommendations from this guideline focus on imaging before, during, or after
TEVAR and include the following:
In patients considered at high risk for symptomatic TAA or acute aortic syndrome, we recommend urgent imaging,
usually computed tomography angiography (CTA) because of its speed and ease of use for preoperative planning. Level
of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
If TEVAR is being considered, we recommend ﬁne-cut (#0.25 mm) CTA of the entire aorta as well as of the iliac and
femoral arteries. CTA of the head and neck is also needed to determine the anatomy of the vertebral arteries. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
We recommend routine use of three-dimensional centerline reconstruction software for accurate case planning and
execution in TEVAR. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
We recommend contrast-enhanced computed tomography scanning at 1 month and 12 months after TEVAR and
then yearly for life, with consideration of more frequent imaging if an endoleak or other abnormality of concern is
detected at 1 month. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate).
Finally, based on our review, in patients who could undergo either technique (within the criteria of the device’s instructions for use), we recommend TEVAR as the preferred approach to treat elective DTA aneurysms, given its reduced
morbidity and length of stay as well as short-term mortality. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High).
Given the beneﬁts of TEVAR, treatment using a minimally invasive approach is largely based on anatomic eligibility
rather than on patient-speciﬁc factors, as is the case in open TAA repair. Thus, for isolated lesions of the DTA, TEVAR
should be the primary method of repair in both the elective and emergent setting based on improved short-term and
midterm mortality as well as decreased morbidity. (J Vasc Surg 2021;73:55S-83S.)

From the Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Florida, Gainesvillea; the

Correspondence: Gilbert R. Upchurch Jr, MD, Department of Surgery, University

Division of Vascular Surgery, Emory University, Atlantab; the Division of

of Florida, 1600 Archer Rd, Rm 6714, Gainesville, FL 32610 (e-mail: gib.

Vascular Surgery, Cedars-Sinai, Los Angelesc; the Division of Vascular Surgery,

upchurch@surgery.uﬂ.edu).

University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birminghamd; the Division of Vascular

Independent peer review and oversight have been provided by members of

Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Bostone; the Division of Vascular

the SVS Document Oversight Committee (Drs Thomas L. Forbes, Chair,

Surgery, University of Wisconsin, Madisonf; the Knowledge and Evaluation

Ruth Bush, Vice-Chair, Neal Barshes, Keith Calligaro, Ronald L. Dalman,

Research Unit, Mayo Clinic, Rochesterg; the Department of Surgery, United

Mark Davies, Yazan Duwayri, Alik Farber, Gregory Landry, Mahmoud Malas,

States Army, Seattleh; the Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pitts-

Katherine McGinigle, J. Sheppard Mondy, Marc Schermerhorn, and Cynthia

burgh Medical Center, Pittsburghi; the Division of Vascular Surgery, Medical

Shortell).

University of South Carolina, Charlestonj; and the Division of Vascular Surgery,

0741-5214

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.k

Copyright Ó 2020 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.

Author conﬂict of interest: J.S.M. is a consultant and receives research grants

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2020.05.076

through the University of Wisconsin-Madison for Abbott, Cook, Gore, Medtronic, and Endologix. R.K.V. is a proctor and speaker for Cook and Medtronic.

55S

56S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

January Supplement 2021

TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS ............................
DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDELINES .....................................
DOCUMENT REVIEW AND APPROVAL ........................
METHODOLOGY AND EVIDENCE REVIEW .................
EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS ...........................
Population affected ..............................................................
Risk factors for disease and rupture .......................
Natural history and rupture rate of TAA ..............
THE THORACIC AORTA: ANATOMY AND
CLASSIFICATIONS ....................................................................
Anatomy of the thoracic aorta ....................................
Classiﬁcations of the zones and arch .....................
THORACIC AORTIC HISTOPATHOLOGY .......................
Thoracic aneurysm and atherosclerotic
disease .............................................................................................
Aortic vasculitides and inﬂammatory diseases
PAU, IMH, and AD ..................................................................
Mycotic aneurysms and aortoesophageal and
aortobronchial ﬁstulas ........................................................
Coarctation ..................................................................................
Kommerell diverticulum ..................................................
Tumors ............................................................................................
DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION OF THORACIC AORTIC
DISEASE ........................................................................................
Values and preferences .....................................................
History and physical examination in the
evaluation of thoracic aortic disease ......................
History of the patient’s illness .................................
Physical examination .....................................................
Diagnostic studies and imaging in
symptomatic patients ....................................................
Preoperative workup in patients undergoing
open surgical and endovascular repair ................
Emergent or urgent repair ........................................
Elective repair .......................................................................
Assessment of left ventricular function ................
Additional testing ...................................................................
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMAGING OF THE DTA
BEFORE TEVAR ........................................................................
Chest radiography .................................................................
CTA .....................................................................................................
MRA ...................................................................................................
Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) ...................................
PERIOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIVE
DECISION-MAKING .................................................................
Perioperative medical management .....................
Open repair vs TEVAR for TAA .....................................
Indications for repair ............................................................
TEVAR for TAA .....................................................................
TEVAR for IMH and PAU .............................................
TEVAR for infected TAAs .............................................
Choice of anesthetic and monitoring
techniques ...................................................................................
Anesthesia ...............................................................................
Spinal cord protection ..................................................
Management of the LSA and vertebrobasilar
system ..............................................................................................
Spinal cord ischemia ......................................................

56S
59S
59S
59S
60S
60S
60S
60S
60S
60S
61S
61S
61S
61S
62S
62S
63S
63S
63S
63S
63S
63S
63S
64S
64S
64S
64S
64S
64S
64S
65S
65S
65S
65S
66S
66S
66S
66S
67S
67S
67S
68S
68S
68S
68S
69S
69S

Stroke ..........................................................................................
Arm ischemia and vertebrobasilar
insufﬁciency ...........................................................................
Additional considerations ...........................................
Renal protection strategies for TEVAR ..................
Implementation remark ...................................................
Recommendation for coverage or occlusion of
the CA during TEVAR ..........................................................
Recommendation for access during TEVAR ....
Femoral access ....................................................................
Iliac or aortic access ........................................................
Endoconduit ..........................................................................
Carotid-axillary access ...................................................
Recommendations for treatment of
symptomatic and ruptured TAAs .............................
SURVEILLANCE AFTER TEVAR .........................................
Implementation remarks about surveillance ..
SPECIAL TAA CONSIDERATIONS ....................................
CONCLUSIONS ...........................................................................

69S
70S
70S
71S
72S
72S
73S
73S
74S
74S
75S
75S
75S
76S
76S
77S

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
Practice recommendations were made using the
Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system.1
Recommendation 1: In patients considered at low or intermediate risk for a thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) based
on their history and physical examination ﬁndings, we suggest chest X-ray as the ﬁrst radiographic test as it may identify an alternative diagnosis for symptoms and may obviate
the need for additional aortic imaging. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 2: In patients considered at high risk
for symptomatic TAA or acute aortic syndrome, we
recommend urgent imaging, usually computed tomography angiography (CTA) because of its speed and ease
of use for preoperative planning. Magnetic resonance
angiography and transesophageal echocardiography
are also adequate for screening to identify thoracic aortic
disease but have limited applicability in certain scenarios
(discussed further later). Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 3: For elective thoracic endovascular
aortic repair (TEVAR) cases, we suggest assessment of left
ventricular function by transthoracic echocardiography
in a patient with dyspnea of unknown origin or in a patient with known congestive heart failure with worsening
dyspnea. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 4: If TEVAR is being considered, we
recommend ﬁne-cut (#0.25 mm) CTA of the entire aorta
as well as of the iliac and femoral arteries. CTA of the
head and neck is also needed to determine the anatomy
of the vertebral arteries. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Recommendation 5: We recommend routine use of
three-dimensional centerline reconstruction software

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

57S

Volume 73, Number 1S

for accurate case planning and execution in TEVAR.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 6: We suggest contrast-enhanced
magnetic resonance angiography for preoperative planning for patients with severe allergy to iodinated contrast
material. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 7: We recommend intravascular ultrasound use in TEVAR for TAA to assess landing zones
when cross-sectional imaging is of poor quality, a more
detailed evaluation of landing zones or branch vessel origins is needed, or a decrease in contrast material use is
desired. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 8: As hypertension is a modiﬁable risk
factor for the development of aortic aneurysms and is associated with accelerated aortic growth and rupture, we
recommend that blood pressure be managed to the
adherence of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines.2 Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 9: We recommend interventions for
smoking cessation in patients with thoracic aortic disease as even passive exposure may increase the risk of
aortic rupture. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Recommendation 10: In patients who could undergo
either technique (within the criteria of the device’s instructions for use), we recommend TEVAR as the
preferred approach to treat elective descending thoracic
aorta (DTA) aneurysms, given its reduced morbidity and
length of stay as well as short-term mortality. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Recommendation 11: We recommend TEVAR in
asymptomatic patients with a descending TAA when
the maximum aneurysm diameter exceeds 5.5 cm in
“low-risk” patients with favorable aortic anatomy. Level
of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 12: We suggest using higher aortic
diameter thresholds for TEVAR in patients deemed to
have a particularly high risk of death, renal failure, or
paraplegia from the procedure, where the beneﬁt of
treatment is lower than the risk posed by the natural history of the TAA. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 13: Because of the dynamic nature
of isolated intramural hematoma (IMH) and its known
association with aortic dissection, we recommend close
observation and hypertension control with follow-up imaging as the initial management of patients with asymptomatic IMH. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)

Recommendation 14: We recommend TEVAR in patients with IMH or penetrating aortic ulcer who have
persistent symptoms or complications or show evidence
of disease progression on follow-up imaging after a
period of hypertension control. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 15: We suggest TEVAR in selected
cases of asymptomatic penetrating aortic ulcer in patients who have at-risk characteristics for growth or
rupture. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 16: We suggest TEVAR for symptomatic mycotic/infected TAA as a temporizing measure, but
data demonstrating long-term beneﬁt are lacking. Level
of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 17: We recommend increasing
perfusion pressure through controlled hypertension
(mean arterial pressure >90 mm Hg) as a component
of a spinal cord protection protocol in patients at high
risk of spinal cord injury because of extensive coverage
length (>15 cm), poor hypogastric perfusion (occluded
or signiﬁcantly stenosed hypogastric arteries), or
coverage of important collaterals (subclavian/hypogastric
arteries). Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 18: We recommend prophylactic cerebrospinal ﬂuid drainage for spinal cord injury protection in TEVAR cases that are deemed high risk
(covering extensive length of descending aorta; previous
aortic coverage, including endovascular aneurysm repair
and open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair; compromised pelvic perfusion with diseased or occluded common or internal iliac arteries; diseased or occluded
vertebral arteries; planned left subclavian artery [LSA]
coverage; or deemed high risk by the operating surgeon).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 19: For elective TEVAR of a TAA
where coverage of the LSA is necessary for adequate
stent graft seal, we suggest preoperative or concomitant
LSA revascularization. Level of recommendation: Grade
1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 20: For patients in whom the anatomy to be treated compromises perfusion to vital structures, we recommend LSA revascularization. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Examples of these circumstances include the following:
Presence of a patent left internal mammary artery to
coronary artery bypass graft
Termination of the left vertebral artery into the posterior
inferior cerebellar artery
Absent, atretic, or occluded right vertebral artery
Patent left arm arteriovenous shunt for dialysis

58S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

Prior infrarenal aortic operation or endovascular aneurysm repair with previously ligated or covered lumbar
and middle sacral arteries
Planned extensive coverage ($15 cm) of the DTA
Hypogastric artery occlusion or signiﬁcant occlusive
disease
Presence of aneurysm disease in the young patient, for
whom future therapy involving the distal thoracic aorta
may be necessary
Recommendation 21: For patients with acute thoracic
emergencies, where TEVAR is required urgently and
coverage of the LSA is necessary, it is suggested that
revascularization
should
be
individualized
and
addressed on the basis of the patient’s anatomy and urgency of the procedure. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 22: We recommend preprocedural
TEVAR planning to include sizing and landing sites
before the case to minimize procedural contrast material
use. If available, intraoperative CTA overlay technology
and intravascular ultrasound should be used to minimize
use of contrast material. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 23: We recommend nonionic,
hypo-osmolar contrast material with attempts at minimizing intra-arterial contrast agent use, especially in patients at high risk for contrast-induced nephropathy.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 24: Depending on the patient’s
corporal density and the capacity of the X-ray equipment available, we suggest diluting contrast material
in the power injector when possible (typically to 50%
or 70%). Adjustments in injection volume and time
(faster injection of smaller doses) can usually compensate when additional visibility is required. Level of
recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 25: We suggest the use of on-table
mapping software options on ﬁxed-imaging X-ray
systems, such as roadmapping and computed tomography (CT) fusion or overlay reference, to aid in locating
target landing sites and to minimize need for repeated
injections. If available, CT overlay capability is extremely
useful, especially in cases in which location and
cannulation of branches will be needed. Level of
recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence:
B (Moderate)
Recommendation 26: To decrease the risk of atheroembolization, we recommend minimizing intra-aortic
wire, catheter, and endograft manipulation in the aortic
arch and at or above the visceral/renal arteries, especially
in patients with signiﬁcant aortic atheromatous disease
or thrombus. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)

Recommendation 27: We recommend minimizing the
dwelling time of large or occlusive iliofemoral artery
sheaths to decrease the risk of spinal cord ischemia
and lower extremity ischemia that can lead to postoperative compartment syndrome or rhabdomyolysis. In
cases in which a large sheath must be left in place for
a prolonged time, it can be withdrawn into the external
iliac artery to allow antegrade ﬂow into the ipsilateral internal iliac artery. Meticulous postoperative vigilance to
detect inadequate lower extremity perfusion or
compartment syndrome should be routine. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 28: We recommend pre-emptive
superior mesenteric artery (SMA) stenting with a
balloon-expandable stent in cases of >50% stenosis of
the SMA in the following conditions: before or after celiac
artery (CA) coverage or encroachment, with TEVAR that
is encroaching on the SMA origin, or in any patient otherwise considered at high risk for post-TEVAR mesenteric
ischemia. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 29: In anticipation of high risk for CA
territory ischemia (nonvisualization of CA collateral
branches by CTA or dedicated SMA angiography), we
recommend open or endovascular revascularization of
the CA before TEVAR. Level of recommendation: Grade
1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 30: If an open approach for access is
used, we recommend transverse or oblique incisions in
performing open femoral access for TEVAR. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 31: We recommend using ultrasound guidance for percutaneous access to improve procedural success and to decrease the rate of major
complications. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 32: We recommend that percutaneous access for TEVAR is safe and an acceptable alternative to open common femoral artery exposure if
certain anatomic criteria are met (eg, diameter of common femoral artery, lack of front wall calcium). Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 33: We recommend the use of iliac
conduits or direct iliac/aortic punctures for TEVAR delivery to facilitate access in patients with small (relative to
the chosen device), tortuous, or calciﬁed iliac vessels.
The decision to perform a conduit should be made in
the preoperative setting, when possible. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Recommendation 34: We suggest that endoconduits
to facilitate access for TEVAR are an acceptable alternative to an open iliac conduit in some cases, but few

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

59S

Volume 73, Number 1S

data comparing them with an iliac conduit or long-term
data describing their outcomes over time are available.
Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 35: We recommend TEVAR over
open repair for the treatment of ruptured DTA when
anatomically feasible. Level of recommendation: Grade
1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 36: We recommend contrastenhanced CT scanning at 1 month and 12 months after
TEVAR and then yearly for life, with consideration of
more frequent imaging if an endoleak or other abnormality of concern is detected at 1 month. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)

DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDELINES
The Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) thoracic
endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) guidelines committee was created by ﬁrst soliciting interest among
members of the SVS. The committee and Chair
were then chosen by the SVS to ensure that the
number of authors without documented conﬂicts of
interest was greater than or equal to the number
with reported conﬂicts of interest. Importantly, these
guidelines are speciﬁc for lesions isolated to the
descending thoracic aorta (DTA) that require coverage
of zones 2 to 6.3 Those patients with aortic disease
within the aortic arch requiring coverage at or proximal to the left carotid artery (zone 0 or zone 1) are
excluded from these guidelines. Furthermore, whereas
we included management of the celiac artery (CA)
when coverage is required for distal seal and ﬁxation,
the subject of management of any other visceral arteries was excluded from these guidelines.
An outline developed by the writing group included
the following: anatomy of the thoracic aorta; aortic
pathologic processes to be covered, that is, thoracic
aortic aneurysms (TAAs) and acute aortic syndromes
limited to penetrating aortic ulcer (PAU) and intramural hematoma (IMH), exclusive of traumatic injuries
and dissection; diagnostic ﬁndings; and comparison of
the advantages and disadvantages of available imaging
modalities in various settings. Further topics included
the perioperative management of patients with
thoracic aortic disease, speciﬁcally mitigation of the
perioperative risk of spinal cord ischemia, stroke, and
renal failure, and evidence-based recommendations
regarding the management of the left subclavian artery (LSA) and CA when coverage of those vessels is
deemed necessary for “successful” repair. Additional
recommendations focused on arterial access, differential management of elective and urgent/emergent
TAA, and optimal surveillance intervals after TEVAR.
Finally, we considered special problems, including

possible volume-outcome relationship, related to repair
of TAA.

DOCUMENT REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The committee developed the practice guideline by
assigning members to create primary drafts of each section of the document based on the aforementioned
outline, highlighting speciﬁc areas where recommendations were needed and appropriate. Each section was
then placed into a single document, compiled, reviewed,
and revised by the writing group, led by the Chair. All
guideline recommendations were reviewed by the full
committee and ﬁnalized through an iterative, consensus
process. In considering available treatment modalities to
be included in the ﬁnal draft, we evaluated only options
currently available to patients and physicians in the
United States.
The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) framework was used
for determining the quality of evidence and the strength
of recommendation, as previously reported.1 The quality
of evidence is rated high (A), moderate (B), or low (C).
This rating is based on the risk of bias, precision, directness, and consistency. The strength of recommendation
is graded on the basis of the quality of evidence, balance
between beneﬁts and harms, patients’ values, preferences, and clinical context. Recommendations are
graded strong (1) or weak (2). The term we recommend
is used with strong recommendations, and the term
we suggest is used for weak recommendations. Some
statements are labeled good practice statements.4 These
are statements that did not have direct supporting evidence but had ample indirect evidence and would be
considered by many surgeons as surgical principles.
Some statements are labeled implementation remarks.
These are technical suggestions that aim to explain
and to implement the preceding recommendation.
Finally, the SVS Document Oversight Committee peer
reviewed the document twice and provided content
and methodology expertise. The document was then
revised and sent to the Executive Committee and
received ﬁnal endorsement.

METHODOLOGY AND EVIDENCE REVIEW
In association with the TEVAR for TAA guideline group
document and recommendations, a systematic review
and meta-analysis were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of TEVAR and open repair in patients with isolated TAA.5 The data sources for this evidence review
included PubMed, Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid Embase, EBSCO
CINAHL, and Scopus, which were searched from each database’s inception to January 29, 2016. Observational
studies that compared the two approaches in adults
with TAA and reported 30-day mortality or procedure
complications were selected. Data were extracted and
appraised by two reviewers independently. Random

60S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

effects meta-analysis was used to estimate odds ratio (OR)
and 95% conﬁdence intervals (CIs). This document provided evidence that TEVAR reduced the risk of mortality
in both intact (OR, 0.6; 95% CI, 0.36-0.99) and ruptured
(OR, 0.58; 95% CI, 0.38-0.88) settings. In addition, paraplegia risks and pulmonary complication rates were lower
with TEVAR compared with open repair for isolated TAA.

EPIDEMIOLOGY AND RISK FACTORS
Thoracic aortic disease is an important public health
issue.6-10 Although abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs)
and ascending aortic aneurysms are more common,
descending TAAs and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAAs) are not rare, with an estimated incidence
of 6 to 10 cases per 100,000 person-years.5,10 Olsson et al11
examined the prevalence of TAA from 1987 to 2002 in
patients with thoracic aortic dissections (ADs) or aneurysms in Sweden. Of 14,229 individuals with thoracic
aortic disease, the diagnosis was made in 11,039 (78%)
before death. The incidence of thoracic aortic disease
rose by 52% in men and 28% in women to reach 16.3
and 9.1 per 100,000 per year, respectively. The authors
concluded that the prevalence and incidence of thoracic
aortic disease were higher than previously reported and
have been steadily increasing. The rising prevalence of
TAA has been attributed to a number of factors,
including improved imaging techniques, an aging population, and increased patient and physician awareness.12
Population affected. TAA is primarily a disease of the
elderly. The average age of patients with TAA is 65 years
at diagnosis, with a male to female ratio of 1.7:1.10 In
contrast, in patients with AAA, the mean age is 75 years,
with a male to female ratio of 6:1.13 TAAs clearly have a
genetic component, with >20% of patients having a ﬁrstdegree relative affected by aneurysm disease.14-16
Risk factors for disease and rupture. Many risk factors
are common to both AAA and TAA patients, including
hypertension, smoking, and atherosclerosis in other arterial beds.10,17-19 Systemic hypertension, especially
elevated diastolic blood pressure >100 mm Hg, has been
associated with aortic growth and rupture.20,21 Although
most often described as degenerative in etiology, up to
20% of patients have TAAs that are the sequelae of
chronic AD. Importantly, for this document, TAA related
to chronic type B ADs and those associated with inherited connective tissue disorders are intentionally
excluded and are the subject of future SVS documents.
Natural history and rupture rate of TAA. Published
data on the natural history of isolated TAAs is not as
readily available as it is for infrarenal AAA, partially related
to their much less frequent occurrence. Also, data
regarding isolated TAA have historically been combined
with TAAA and with aneurysm associated with dissection, each of which is likely to have its own unique

natural history, further clouding our knowledge.22
Importantly, TAAs often occur in patients with multiple
comorbidities, such as hypertension and atherosclerosis,
over a wide range of ages. Therefore, patients often succumb to other disease processes, such as cancer or coronary artery disease, highlighting the importance of
preoperative surgical decision-making in the setting of
the largely unknown natural history of TAA.
Regardless, initial studies from the 1970s by McNamara
and Pressler23 documented that approximately 40% of
TAA patients who did not undergo surgical repair died
of rupture, whereas 32% died of other cardiovascular diseases, with a mean survival of <3 years after TAA diagnosis. During an extended period of observation, >90%
of patients with unrepaired aneurysms suffered aortic
rupture, with 68% of ruptures occurring >1 month after
the diagnosis.23,24 A more recent (2002) review25 found
the 5-year survival rate for patients with a 6.0-cm TAA
to be 54%, with a risk for rupture of 3.7%/y and a risk
for death of 12%/y. The investigators found a similar median survival in patients with untreated TAA of only
3.3 years. In a natural history study by Crawford and
DeNatale26 of TAA patients who were not candidates
for open surgery, the survival rate was just 24% at 2 years,
with more than half the deaths related to aneurysm
rupture. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
was noted in 80% of the subgroup with rupture. Similar
studies in patients with small infrarenal AAAs have
conﬁrmed COPD as a signiﬁcant risk factor for rupture.27
Cambria et al28 followed up a series of 57 patients with
TAA, including those who were not considered operative
candidates. The authors found that an aneurysm
>5 cm (P ¼ .05) and both COPD and chronic renal failure
were associated with rupture (P ¼ .06). Griepp et al29
studied 165 patients with TAAA who did not undergo surgery, ﬁnding that about 20% experienced aneurysm
rupture. Signiﬁcant risk factors included older age,
COPD, continued pain, and aortic diameter. Patients
with AD ruptured at smaller aortic diameters than did
those with degenerative aneurysms.
Practice Statement: More research focused on the
pathogenesis and clinical care of patients with isolated
TAA is required.22-29 (Ungraded good practice
statement)

THE THORACIC AORTA: ANATOMY AND
CLASSIFICATIONS
Anatomy of the thoracic aorta. The thoracic aorta is
divided into the aortic root, ascending aorta, aortic
arch, and descending aorta. The size of the thoracic aorta
increases from the root to the diaphragm, with an
average size between 2 and 3 cm; it is approximately
10% smaller in women.6,30 Critically at risk during
TEVAR are the multiple spinal cord branches that may
be covered by the endograft after emerging as dorsal
branches from the intercostal arteries. These critical

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

61S

Volume 73, Number 1S

branches collateralize as the anterior spinal artery, which
then travels along the axis of the cord. Multiple vessels
supply blood ﬂow to the spinal cord, including the subclavian and vertebral arteries, intercostal arteries, supreme intercostal artery of Adamkiewicz, lumbar
arteries, and iliolumbar branches of the internal iliac
(hypogastric) arteries.31,32
There are anatomic aortic arch variations. These variations often are not manifested during childhood but
are recognized later in life. Many of these variations are
often corrected in childhood if they are incompatible
with a normal life span. The most common anatomic
variation is a “bovine” arch, in which one or more of the
great vessels arise from a common trunk. A second common variable, the aberrant right subclavian artery (arteria
lusoria), arises distal to the LSA and travels posterior to
the esophagus to the right arm. The path of these aberrant arteries can vary in their relation to the trachea and
esophagus. Other common variants include an aberrant
LSA, which often is seen in the setting of a right-sided
arch, and a thyroid ima branch, which arises directly
from the aortic arch and travels to the thyroid gland. Variations in the origin of the vertebral arteries are also common, with the most common variation involving a
vertebral artery arising directly from the aortic arch.
Classiﬁcations of the zones and arch. The aorta can
be divided into 11 zones, 6 of which are in the
thoracic aorta, which are useful for describing the
segment of the vessel and the potential branches
that may be covered or replaced during repair
(Fig 1).3 The utility of these zones in comparative
research is well described in the SVS Ad Hoc Committee on TEVAR Reporting Guidelines.3 Zone 2 is the
segment that includes the LSA, whereas zone 3 is the
considered the proximal DTA. Zone 4 is the straight
portion of descending aorta. Zone 5 is the segment
of the DTA that terminates above the CA. The
remainder of the aorta lies within the abdomen, with
zone 6 involving the celiac aorta (Fig 1). Aortic arch
anatomy also can be critical, especially in the setting
of a type III arch (Fig 2).33
Practice Statement: Future publications and reporting
of TEVAR management should include classiﬁcations
identifying the location of aneurysms and presence or
absence of PAUs with or without IMH as well as the
zones and arch type to aid in comparative studies for
the prediction of patient outcomes after interventions.
(Ungraded good practice statement)

THORACIC AORTIC HISTOPATHOLOGY
Thoracic aneurysm and atherosclerotic disease. The
most common histopathologic feature of TAA is elastic
tissue fragmentation and loss of smooth muscle cells,
resulting in the collection of matrix material in the area
of disintegration. These medial degenerative changes

Fig 1. Zones of the thoracic aorta.3

are variably associated with wall thinning, loss of elastic
and muscle ﬁbers in the aortic media, accumulation of
mucopolysaccharide cysts between the ﬁbers, and subsequent wall expansion. Common risk factors include
hypertension and connective tissue disease. Atherosclerosis, on the other hand, is typically characterized by
intimal plaques composed of variable combinations of
ﬁbrous tissue and lipid with calciﬁcation. Inﬂammation
manifested by the accumulation of macrophages and
lymphocytes and their secretory products contributes
to the progression of disease.
Aortic vasculitides and inﬂammatory diseases. Inﬂammatory aortitis is characterized by the presence of
inﬂammation of the adventitia and media.34 Histologic
ﬁndings may show thickened adventitia with inﬁltration
of adventitia and media with clusters of plasma cells and
lymphocytes.
Takayasu (necrotizing) aortitis usually is manifested as
panaortitis with granulomatous inﬂammation and stenosis of the aortic arch and its major branches.34 Initially,
the inﬂammation is around the vasa vasorum and at the
medial-adventitial site and advances into the intima.
Rapid and severe inﬂammation can lead to the loss of
smooth muscle cells and may advance to produce aortic
arch syndrome, segmental stenosis, occlusion, and aneurysm. Disintegration of elastic ﬁbers is prominent, as are
reactive ﬁbrosis and increased ground substance within

62S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

Fig 2. Classiﬁcation of the aortic arch. CCA, Common carotid artery. (Reproduced from Madhwal S, Rajagopal V,
Bhatt DL, Bajzer CT, Whitlow P, Kapadia SR. Predictors of difﬁcult carotid stenting as determined by aortic arch
angiography. J Invasive Cardiol 2008;20:200-4. Permission from HMP Global.)

the intima. The histologic hallmark of Takayasu aortitis is
multifocal medial laminar necrosis rimmed by macrophages and occasional giant cells. Quiescent or “burnt
out” Takayasu disease is characterized by dense adventitial ﬁbrous thickening and marked medial ﬁbrosis with
loss of the normal lamellar structure.
Giant cell arteritis is a systemic vasculitis characterized
by focal, transmural granulomatous inﬂammation with
giant cells, intimal thickening, and inﬁltrates of mononuclear cells, neutrophils, and eosinophils.34 This manifestation is called granulomatous arteritis. The key
characteristic of granulomatous arteritis is the segmental
spread of inﬂammatory inﬁltrates, made up of T cells and
histiocytes, that results in “skip lesions.” Both Takayasu
aortitis and giant cell arteritis are large-cell vasculitides
that appear to be the target of new medical managements that include the use of targeted biologics.35
PAU, IMH, and AD. PAU and IMH, a complex spectrum
of aortic disease, are unique but often intertwined pathologic processes. This document is not intended to provide a review of AD as it will be reviewed in separate
SVS guidelines.
Brieﬂy, an atherosclerotic plaque can ulcerate and
result in a limited dissection or PAU.36 The ulceration
penetrates the internal elastic lamina, resulting in hematoma formation within the media. The plaque may precipitate a localized intramedial dissection associated
with a variable amount of IMH within the aortic wall,
which can spread into the adventitia, forming a pseudoaneurysm or causing rupture. PAUs are typically not aneurysmal but can occur concurrently with or in the absence
of an aortic aneurysm, dissection, or IMH.
IMH can also develop in apparent isolation in patients
with mild or no atherosclerosis. Aortic IMH may represent
a variant of dissection, the so-called dissection in evolution, and is characterized by the absence of an intimal
ﬂap, re-entrant tear, or double channel with false lumen.

It is speculated that the vasa vasorum is responsible for
IMH, with elevated pressures in the vasa vasorum leading
to rupture within the aortic wall. Subsequently, progression and eventual rupture into the intima might occur,
leading to typical AD. Studies examining the vasa vasorum have also suggested that hyperplasia leading to
chronic, occlusive disease within the aortic wall can
lead to chronic medial ischemia and degeneration. The
complex pathologic processes of PAUs and IMH have
been well described,37-39 and management decisions
can often be complex, depending on the clinical presentation and anatomic location, among other important
factors.
Mycotic aneurysms and aortoesophageal and aortobronchial ﬁstulas. A mycotic (or infected) aneurysm is
deﬁned as an infectious break in the wall of an artery
with formation of a blind, often saccular outpouching
that is contiguous with the arterial lumen. Controversy
has existed as to the exact mechanisms by which primary mycotic TAAs occur; they may be due to hematogenous dissemination of microorganisms, direct
involvement of the intima, or extension from a nearby
septic focus. An intimal disruption, such as in atherosclerotic plaque, may be a site of bacterial lodgment, and
histologic specimens have often demonstrated neutrophilic inﬁltration and atherosclerotic change in the
same aortic wall. Pre-existing trauma or aneurysm may
also facilitate the onset of the infectious process. Histopathologic ﬁndings consist of variable elastic ﬁber
degeneration, partial or complete lumen obliteration,
compensatory ﬁbrosis with increased thickness of the
aortic wall, and perivascular chronic inﬁltrate. It is
important to exclude infection in all saccular TAAs as
w93% of mycotic aneurysms have this appearance on
computed tomography angiography (CTA).40
Aortoesophageal ﬁstula is a rare and potentially fatal
disorder that often is manifested after rupture of an

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

63S

Volume 73, Number 1S

aneurysm into the esophagus. The main etiologic factor
contributing to aortoesophageal ﬁstula is aortic disease,
with more than half of cases being secondary to rupture
of an aneurysm of the DTA into the esophagus. Aortobronchial ﬁstula41 is also a rare but potentially lifethreatening cause of hemoptysis if it is not adequately
treated. In younger patients, aortobronchial ﬁstula is
more frequently seen secondary to surgical repair of
congenital heart defects and aortic coarctation repair.
However, most aortobronchial ﬁstulas originate from a
descending atherosclerotic aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm, which causes an erosion of the lung parenchyma
or tracheobronchial tree.
Coarctation. Aneurysm formation can also develop in
patients late after surgical repair of aortic coarctation in
infancy and has been reported in numerous patients,
with as many as 7% of patients developing “local” aneurysms.42 These aneurysms may be manifested as false,
true, or dissecting.43 Cystic medial necrosis is a common
histopathologic feature observed in coarctation specimens from surgery or autopsy. This provides a pathologic
basis for the formation of aneurysms observed in these
patients after balloon angioplasty or repair.
Kommerell diverticulum. Kommerell diverticulum is a
bulbous aortic dilation that is a remnant of incomplete
regression of an embryologic aortic arch; it is usually
located at or near the origin of an aberrant subclavian artery (ASA).44 Aberrant right and left subclavian arteries (in
a right-sided aortic arch) are typically associated with a
Kommerell diverticulum. The right ASA can arise distal to
the LSA and crosses through the posterior mediastinum
behind the esophagus on its way to the right upper extremity. The aberrant vessel has the potential to cause a
vascular ring around the trachea and esophagus, causing
dysphagia and palsy of the recurrent laryngeal nerve due
to anatomic position. Aneurysms rarely involve the ASA,
but they are associated with a high mortality rate if they
rupture. The risk for rupture or dissection is variable and
ranges from 19% to 53% in some of the case report series.45 Surgical intervention should be considered when
the diameter of the diverticulum exceeds 30 mm or the
diameter of the descending aorta adjacent to the
diverticulum exceeds 50 mm.46-48 Histologic studies
demonstrated the presence of cystic medial necrosis in
the diverticulum wall, which would explain the reported
high rates of AD and rupture associated with these
diverticula.
Tumors. Primary malignant tumors of the aorta are
extremely rare and exhibit enormous histologic heterogeneity.49 They have been described as three distinct
morphologic types: intraluminal, intimal, and adventitial.
Most of the cases are sarcomas, followed by malignant
ﬁbrous histiocytomas. Although intra-aortic biopsy is
possible, these tumors are rarely expected or diagnosed
before surgical exploration.

Practice Statement: There is a relative lack of highquality, long-term evidence on the use of TEVAR in the
setting of arteritis,50 aortoesophageal51 and aortobronchial41 ﬁstulas, coarctation,43 Kommerell diverticulum,52
and tumors.53 Therefore, no strong recommendations
can be made. However, it is recognized that there are
numerous institutional and database reports documenting the use of TEVAR in these settings. It is likely, especially in the setting of a ruptured thoracic aorta in
association with these various pathologic processes,
that TEVAR can play a lifesaving role. Finally, there is
also likely to be an advantage to TEVAR in these pathologic processes in the noninfectious setting over the infectious ones. (Ungraded good practice statement)

DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION OF THORACIC AORTIC
DISEASE
Thoracic aortic disease is increasingly an incidental
ﬁnding on studies performed for other indications
because of the increasing use of cross-sectional imaging.
Unlike abdominal ultrasound for screening for AAAs, there
is no low-cost modality that can be used to image DTA disease. Thus, there is more reliance on the patient’s history,
including familial history, as well as on physical examination ﬁndings to guide the ordering of radiographic tests
to screen for thoracic aortic disease. Genetic testing lends
further support for diagnostic imaging. This section is
dedicated to the diagnostic evaluation of a patient with
DTA disease and also discusses speciﬁcs of the history
and physical examination as well as the preoperative
workup for patients before they undergo TEVAR.
Values and preferences
The committee acknowledges the lack of high-quality
evidence supporting speciﬁc screening strategies, particularly as it pertains to screening intervals. The committee
placed high value on preventing catastrophic vascular
events and lower value on screening burdens (including
psychological burdens) and costs.
History and physical examination in the evaluation of
thoracic aortic disease
History of the patient’s illness. The clinical history
should be directed toward determining whether the patient is at elevated risk for TAA and should receive further
diagnostic evaluation. Most patients are older, with uncontrolled hypertension as a primary risk factor. In
younger patients, the clinical history should lead to an
evaluation for secondary causes of severe hypertension,
including the use of legal and illicit sympathomimetic
drugs, especially in patients with syndromic and nonsyndromic genetic defects predisposing to aortic disease.
Patients with an inﬂammatory vasculitis, such as
Takayasu disease, giant cell arteritis, and Behçet arteritis,
should also be considered at high risk for development
of TAA. The history should also focus on history of previous aortic coarctation repair or a history of signiﬁcant

64S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

blunt trauma to the chest (especially those with a rapid
deceleration injury). A detailed family history should be
taken to elicit a history of familial TAA and dissection.
The past surgical history is carefully reviewed with speciﬁc attention to prior procedures, including internal
mammary artery to coronary artery transposition, upper
extremity arterial procedures, and hemodialysis access
procedures. The history should also focus on history of
aortic valve disease, recent catheterization of the aorta,
and known TAA, especially in the ascending aorta and
aortic arch. Patients may also have symptoms attributable to compression of adjacent structures in the thorax,
such as dysphagia, shortness of breath, or hoarseness
related to stretching of the recurrent laryngeal nerves,
especially in the setting of a large or saccular proximal
DTA aneurysm.
Physical examination. All patients should undergo a
detailed physical examination designed to ﬁrst detect
the presence of a genetic syndrome associated with
AD or TAA (eg, Marfan, Loeys-Dietz, Ehlers-Danlos, or
Turner syndrome). It is well known that these patients
with genetic syndromes have aneurysms in other
anatomic locations, and thus palpation of the abdomen
and popliteal fossa for aneurysms should be a routine
part of the physical examination.
The history and physical examination should also be
focused on identifying other factors, such as angina or
COPD, that might preclude the patient from undergoing
TEVAR, especially in the setting of general anesthesia.
Physical examination should also include a pulse evaluation, with special attention paid to the presence of
palpable femoral pulses for potential access sites to
deliver the TEVAR.
Diagnostic studies and imaging in symptomatic patients. Recommendation 1: In patients considered at
low or intermediate risk for a TAA based on their history
and physical examination ﬁndings, we suggest chest Xray as the ﬁrst radiographic test as it may identify an
alternative diagnosis for symptoms and may obviate
the need for additional aortic imaging. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
Recommendation 2: In patients considered at high risk
for symptomatic TAA or acute aortic syndrome, we
recommend urgent imaging, usually CTA because of its
speed and ease of use for preoperative planning. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and transesophageal echocardiography are also adequate for screening
to identify thoracic aortic disease but have limited applicability in certain scenarios (discussed further later).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Implementation remark: The choice of a screening
diagnostic study should be based on what is immediately available at that institution.

Practice Statement: If there is a high clinical suspicion
for an acute aortic process and the ﬁndings on the initial
study were normal, a second imaging study may be
considered while alternative diagnoses are further
explored. (Ungraded good practice statement)
Preoperative workup in patients undergoing open surgical and endovascular repair
The preoperative cardiac assessments should follow the
general recommendation of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA)
guidelines.2
Emergent or urgent repair. In the presence of thoracic
aortic disease with rupture, preoperative imaging should
be adequate to evaluate whether the patient’s anatomy
is amenable to endovascular repair. This typically consists
of CTA of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis (from above the
clavicles to the femoral heads) to evaluate the proximal
and distal seal zones and to evaluate for vascular access
options. If coverage of the LSA is planned, CTA through
the head and neck is useful to determine the anatomy
of the vertebral arteries. In addition, identiﬁcation of
blood or effusions in the thoracic cavity may suggest
that the lesion to be treated is acute in nature. CTA
may also be useful in the setting of aortoesophageal
and aortobronchial ﬁstulas to determine the best way
to approach the patient and to determine additional interventions (eg, esophagectomy, lung resection) that
may be needed.
Elective repair. Preoperative evaluation in the elective
setting consists of cardiac risk stratiﬁcation and includes
weighing of the patient’s inherent clinical risk with the
risk of surgery. This algorithm is well detailed in the
2014 ACC/AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular
evaluation and management of patients undergoing
noncardiac surgery.2
Assessment of left ventricular function
Recommendation 3: For elective TEVAR cases, we suggest assessment of left ventricular function by transthoracic echocardiography in a patient with dyspnea of
unknown origin or in a patient with known congestive
heart failure with worsening dyspnea. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
Additional testing
Practice Statement: Although there are few supporting data, in trying to determine whether a patient with
severe COPD is a candidate for open TAA repair or
TEVAR, the committee recommends considering pulmonary function testing preoperatively in an attempt
to determine baseline pulmonary function, especially if
general endotracheal anesthesia is being considered,
to determine risk of ventilator dependency postoperatively and ultimately to guide the choice of anesthesia

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

65S

Volume 73, Number 1S

(general vs local anesthesia). (Ungraded good practice
statement)

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMAGING OF THE DTA
BEFORE TEVAR
The goal of this section is to review commonly available
aortic imaging modalities and their respective beneﬁts.
The most critical ﬁndings and clinical suggestions for
optimizing image evaluation are presented.
Chest radiography. Chest radiographs are particularly
prone to observational and interpretive errors. A study
analyzing common diagnostic errors, including aortic
disease, in radiology found that 44% of errors occurred
in interpreting plain ﬁlm radiographs, with 49% of these
involving chest radiographs.54,55
A large aneurysm alters the normal transverse dimension of the mediastinum and blunts the normal interfaces. Proposed radiographic criteria for a widened
mediastinum include a mediastinal width >8 cm or a
mediastinal to thoracic width ratio of $0.25. Other ﬁndings include a left apical “cap,” ﬂuid in the left hemothorax from a ruptured aneurysm, widening of the left
or right paraspinal line or right paratracheal stripe,
effaced aortic contour, anteroposterior window opaciﬁcation, tracheal deviation, left mainstem bronchus
depression, and deviation of a nasogastric tube to the
right of the T4 spinous process54-56
TAAs are typically located in the posterior mediastinum
and associated with the cervicothoracic sign. This sign is
based on the fact that the anterior mediastinum does
not extend above the clavicles. Therefore, any mediastinal mass extending above the level of the clavicle
with sharply deﬁned borders delineated by an air-soft tissue interface is located in the middle or posterior
mediastinum.57
Practice Statement: The primary role of chest radiographs in the workup of acute aortic syndromes is the
exclusion of other diagnoses. A chest radiograph may
be completely normal despite the presence of PAU or
IMH. (Ungraded good practice statement)
CTA. CTA is the most widely used modality for deﬁnitive
diagnosis of aortic diseases and has become essential for
planning aortic interventions, especially when it is used
in conjunction with postacquisition image processing
and three-dimensional reconstruction software. This
limits radiation exposure and intravenous contrast material use. CTA should also include the femoral and iliac
arteries as well as the abdominal aorta in addition to the
neck and chest.58 Advances in imaging techniques,
including electrocardiography-gated CTA, have been
demonstrated to decrease the risk of motion artifact in
the thoracic aorta.59
Recommendation 4: If TEVAR is being considered, we
recommend ﬁne-cut (#0.25 mm) CTA of the entire aorta
as well as of the iliac and femoral arteries. CTA of the

head and neck is also needed to determine the anatomy
of the vertebral arteries.60,61 Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Pixel spacing for modern CTA is submillimeter (0.50.75 mm), with a typically used slice thickness of around
1 mm, depending on scanner type and manufacturer.
Routine computed tomography (CT) scans are often performed in 3- to 5-mm cuts, but three-dimensional planning for endovascular intervention is best done with #2mm cuts.60 Given the acquisition method on most modern CTA equipment, images can often be reformatted to
thinner cuts if the original data set is still available to do so.
Ideally, CTA should provide aortic opaciﬁcation at a minimum of $250 Hounsﬁeld units, $300 Hounsﬁeld units uniformly being ideal. There is tremendous institutional
variation in how this is achieved. There is further variation
based on the patient’s body habitus and cardiac output
and whether a test dose of contrast material vs bolustracking software is used. In general, fast injection rates
and high concentrations of iodine are the general principles that allow high-quality imaging. A reasonable estimate
is that a total of 60 to 140 mL of nonionic iodinated contrast
agent can be injected at a rate of 4 to 6 mL/s. This high injection rate necessitates a power injector, preferably with an
18- to 20-gauge intravenous line, usually in the antecubital
fossa. Central lines are not desirable as they result in artifacts
and make timing of the contrast agent bolus in the thoracic
aorta challenging.62,63
Multiplanar reconstructions allow the aorta to be simultaneously visualized in coronal, sagittal, and axial planes.
This allows a more nuanced understanding of the location
of branches and aortic curvature and a precise identiﬁcation of seal zones. Centerline reconstructions are used to
determine exact distances between branch arteries, and
the length of the thoracic aorta can be measured as well.
The diameter of the aorta can be precisely determined
with centerline measurements as errors of parallax caused
by curvature are virtually eliminated.63-66
Recommendation 5: We recommend routine use of
three-dimensional centerline reconstruction software
for accurate case planning and execution in TEVAR.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
MRA. MRA is not used for routine management of
thoracic aortic disease primarily because of the speed
and availability of CTA as well as ease of interpretation.
However, MRA can provide morphologic and blood
ﬂow information without use of iodinated contrast material or radiation exposure and therefore can play an
important role in the management of the thoracic aorta.
Traditional methods for non-contrast-enhanced MRA,
such as time-of-ﬂight sequences, are being replaced by
newer techniques, such as spin-echo and steady-state
free precession sequences.67 These provide high spatial
resolution but are limited in their characterization of

66S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

the aortic wall. Artifact can be present from embolization
coils or from certain stent graft metallic components.
Contrast-enhanced MRA is typically performed with the
administration of gadolinium, which is administrated intravenously with use of a power injector, with a dose of
0.1 mmol of gadolinium per kilogram of body weight. Images are acquired with a T1-weighted three-dimensional
spoiled gradient-recalled echo sequence, usually during
breath-hold. As with CTA, the relationship between
contrast material administration and image acquisition is
crucial. The source images can be reformatted in multiple
planes with maximum intensity projections and volume
rendering, and a three-dimensional centerline reconstruction can be generated using the MRA data set.68,69
Recommendation 6: We suggest contrast-enhanced
MRA for preoperative planning for patients with severe
allergy to iodinated contrast material. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C
(Low)
Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). IVUS has become an
important adjunct in the endovascular treatment of the
thoracic aorta. The presence of thrombus, calciﬁcations,
and poor aortic wall integrity can also be seen in the
setting of PAUs. IVUS adds signiﬁcant value in treatment
of TAA by reducing intraoperative contrast material volume and radiation use. It also allows precise intraoperative measurement of distances and diameters of the
aorta, adding to the preoperative CTA measurements,
especially in angulated aortas.70,71
Recommendation 7: We recommend IVUS use in
TEVAR for TAA to assess landing zones when crosssectional imaging is of poor quality, a more detailed evaluation of landing zones or branch vessel origins is
needed, or a decrease in contrast material use is desired.
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)

PERIOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIVE
DECISION-MAKING
Perioperative medical management
Medical management of patients with thoracic aortic
disease has been thoroughly described.6 This includes
control of hypertension, statin therapy/lipid optimization,
and smoking cessation. Medical therapy with antihypertensive agents is widely used as a ﬁrst-line treatment in
patients with aortic disease.72 Blood pressure control is
based on anti-impulse therapy to limit the ventricular
ejection force and the aortic wall stress and is especially
important in cases of symptomatic aneurysms or acute
aortic syndromes. The goal of therapy is to reduce the
systolic blood pressure to <20 mm Hg and the heart
rate to <60 beats/min when possible before, during,
and after TEVAR (see exceptions in recommendations
for spinal cord protection). This is usually achieved with
intravenous beta blockers (or alpha/beta blockers) as

ﬁrst-line therapy. For patients who do not respond to or
are intolerant of beta blockers, calcium channel blockers
or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or blockers
can be used as alternatives or complementaries.73
For patients with dyslipidemia, treatment with a statin to
achieve a target low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level
of <70 mg/dL is reasonable and may be helpful in controlling the progression of aneurysms.74 Counseling for smoking cessation, reduction of environmental tobacco
exposure, referral to special programs for cognitivebehavioral therapy, initiation of pharmacotherapy, or,
preferably, multimodal management to achieve complete tobacco abstinence is recommended for patients
who have active tobacco use or exposure.75,76
Recommendation 8: As hypertension is a modiﬁable
risk factor for the development of aortic aneurysms and
is associated with accelerated aortic growth and rupture,
we recommend that blood pressure be managed to the
adherence of the ACC/AHA guidelines.2 Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Recommendation 9: We recommend interventions for
smoking cessation in patients with thoracic aortic disease as even passive exposure may increase the risk of
aortic rupture. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Open repair vs TEVAR for TAA
Until recently, surgical management for elective TAA
repair required major open surgery, with a signiﬁcant
risk for perioperative morbidity and mortality. Centers
of excellence report impressively low mortality and spinal cord ischemia rates in elective cases of 4.8% and
4.6%, respectively.77 In tandem, the mortality after open
surgical treatment of ruptured TAA in highly specialized
practices has been reported to be close to 26%.78 In
contrast, the overall mortality rates in the United States
for elective, open repair of TAA is approximately 22%,79
highlighting the effect that surgeon and center experience has on overall outcomes of these patients. However,
data have consistently demonstrated that TEVAR of isolated TAA is a safe alternative to open surgery and is associated with a substantially lower morbidity and mortality
and a shorter hospitalization.80,81 Large studies designed
to evaluate the long-term (>5 years) outcomes have only
recently become available.82 Only one small series of
thoracic PAU showed a potential beneﬁt to TEVAR
because of a similar long-term survival (w50% at 10 years
in both groups), with lower morbidity in the TEVAR
group, despite being done in patients with a higher
number of preoperative comorbidities.83 In addition,
only recently has there been an attempt to establish a
risk scoring system speciﬁcally developed to predict mortality in patients undergoing TEVAR.84,85
A Cochrane review compared thoracic stent grafting to
open surgery for TAA and concluded that although stent

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

67S

Volume 73, Number 1S

Table. Instructions for use of current thoracic devices
Manufacturer

Name

W. L. Gore &
Associates91

Conformable Thoracic
Aortic Graft (c-TAG)

Medtronic92

Valiant Captivia

Iliac/femoral
diameter, mm

Aortic outer
diameter, mm

Proximal landing
zone, mm

Distal landing
zone, mm

4-8.7, depending on sheath

16-42a

$20

$20

7.3-8.3, depending on sheath

18-42

$20

$20

Cook Medical

Zenith Alpha

6.0-7.7, depending on graft size

22-42

$20

$20

Boltonc Medical94

Relay

7.3-8.7, depending on sheath

19-42

15-25

15-25

93

b

a

Gore measures inner aortic diameter for graft sizing.
Cook recalled all Zenith Alpha TEVAR grafts with proximal or distal diameter of 18 to 22 mm and recalled the indication for blunt traumatic aortic
injury on March 22, 2017.95
c
Now Terumo.
b

grafting of the thoracic aorta is technically feasible and
nonrandomized studies suggest reduction of early
adverse outcomes, such as paraplegia, mortality, and
hospital stay, high-quality randomized controlled trials
assessing clinically relevant outcomes including open
conversion, aneurysm exclusion, endoleaks, and late
mortality are needed.86,87 In addition, although there
are no randomized, controlled prospective trials
comparing open and endovascular TAA repair and probably never will be, industry-sponsored trials and registry
data (Table) suggest clinical equipoise in centers experienced in both techniques.77-81,84,85,88-95
Recommendation 10: In patients who could undergo
either technique (within the criteria of the device’s instructions for use), we recommend TEVAR as the
preferred approach to treat elective DTA aneurysms,
given its reduced morbidity and length of stay as well
as short-term mortality. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: A (High)
Indications for repair
TEVAR for TAA. Untreated 6.0-cm TAAs have a 5-year
survival of 54%, yielding a 3.7%/y risk for rupture and a
risk of dying of w12%/y.25,96 A prospective database of
>1600 TAAs and ADs found that an aneurysmal thoracic
aorta grows an average of 0.10 cm/y (0.07 cm for the
ascending aorta and 0.19 cm for the DTA).22,96 In saccular
aneurysms, which may have a higher risk of rupture,
TEVAR may be justiﬁed at a diameter <6.0 cm even
though high-quality data are not readily available. Data
suggesting that lower thresholds for repair of the DTA in
women are also not readily available as aneurysm disease in the thoracic aorta is rarer than in the abdominal
aorta. In making treatment recommendations, the patient’s overall medical condition and risk proﬁle should
be considered. For patients at higher risk for elective
repair, a larger aortic diameter threshold may be more
appropriate in considering their expected surgical
complication rate. In addition, data are lacking regarding
rapid aneurysm expansion and what size threshold over
time is considered accelerated growth. Therefore, TEVAR
based on “rapid expansion” should be individualized and

should take into account the comorbidities of the patients, their expected longevity, and risk factors for a poor
outcome after TEVAR.
Recommendation 11: We recommend TEVAR in
asymptomatic patients with a descending TAA when
the maximum aneurysm diameter exceeds 5.5 cm in
“low-risk” patients with favorable aortic anatomy. Level
of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 12: We suggest using higher aortic
diameter thresholds for TEVAR in patients deemed to
have a particularly high risk of death, renal failure, or
paraplegia from the procedure, where the beneﬁt of
treatment is lower than the risk posed by the natural history of the TAA. Level of recommendation: Grade 2
(Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
TEVAR for IMH and PAU. As mentioned previously,
IMH, PAU, and AD may be similar pathologic processes
along a spectrum of aortic disease or may occur in isolation, and therefore a discussion of the use of TEVAR for
dissection will be undertaken in another SVS document.
Patients with asymptomatic, acute IMH may often be
managed conservatively with optimal medical therapy
in an intensive care setting. According to a contemporary systematic review of 925 patients with IMH, the predictors of complications include persistent pain,
hemodynamic instability, maximum aortic diameter
>45 mm, IMH wall thickness >10 mm, presence of
ulcer-like projections, pleural effusion or hemomediastinum, and periaortic hemorrhage.97 The 3-year aortarelated mortality was 5.4% with medical treatment,
23% with open surgery, and 7.1% with endovascular
therapy.97 Because of the dynamic nature of IMH and its
association with AD (AD in evolution), close observation
and hypertension control with follow-up imaging are
warranted.
Recommendation 13: Because of the dynamic nature
of isolated IMH and its known association with AD, we
recommend close observation and hypertension control
with follow-up imaging as the initial management of patients with asymptomatic IMH. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)

68S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

Recommendation 14: We recommend TEVAR in patients with IMH or PAU who have persistent symptoms
or complications or show evidence of disease progression on follow-up imaging after a period of hypertension
control. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
The natural history of and indications for repair in
patients with PAUs are controversial, but they have
been found in one series to grow 2 mm/y in their
maximal aortic size and length while growing an
average of only 1.2 mm/y in depth.98 The presence of
symptoms, an associated IMH, and an increase in pleural
effusion appear to be risk factors for complications.83,99
Treatment with TEVAR is indicated for patients who
are symptomatic despite best medical therapy or have
an increase in pleural effusion. The threshold for intervention for asymptomatic patients is also controversial.
According to one study, PAU depth >10 mm and diameter >20 mm are risk factors for progressive disease.99
Recommendation 15: We suggest TEVAR in selected
cases of asymptomatic PAU in patients who have atrisk characteristics for growth or rupture. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Practice Statement: In the absence of clear and widely
accepted parameters, the decision to intervene in
asymptomatic patients with IMH and PAUs should be
individualized. Asymptomatic patients treated for PAUs
in the setting of a maximal aortic diameter <5.5 cm or
with PAUs <10 mm deep or <20 mm in diameter need
further study. (Ungraded good practice statement)
TEVAR for infected TAAs. Whereas the use of TEVAR
to treat infected aortic diseases has often been reported
in single or small case series, there are no convincing
long-term data to fully support it as a deﬁnitive therapy. Although TEVAR can be effective when it is used to
temporize ruptured infected TAA or life-threatening
ﬁstula with a hollow organ (ie, aortoesophageal and
aortobronchial ﬁstulas), patients with this clinical presentation have high morbidity and mortality regardless
of the subsequent management strategy.100-103 TEVAR
may offer a more durable repair if the endograft is
pretreated with antibiotics, such as rifampin, but
there are limited data in widely disparate clinical
scenarios.100,104,105
Recommendation 16: We suggest TEVAR for symptomatic mycotic/infected TAAs as a temporizing measure,
but data demonstrating long-term beneﬁt are lacking.
Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of
Evidence: C (Low)
Choice of anesthetic and monitoring techniques
Anesthesia. It is technically feasible to perform TEVAR
procedures percutaneously under monitored anesthesia
care with local anesthesia.106 Among other beneﬁts of
avoiding general anesthesia, local anesthesia may

theoretically allow neurologic evaluation of the patient’s
lower extremities.107
Arterial lines, large-bore venous access, and cerebrospinal ﬂuid (CSF) drains are placed before TEVAR. The necessity for each of these depends on the complexity of
the repair, the risk of spinal cord ischemia, the planned
duration of the procedure, and the likelihood of signiﬁcant blood loss. Other adjunctive techniques performed
during TEVAR, such as somatosensory and motor evoked
potential monitoring, rapid arterial pacing, or pharmacologically induced hypotension, may be used as well.
Practice Statement: Comparative, high-quality data
regarding the use of local anesthesia vs general anesthesia during the performance of TEVAR are lacking,
and it is typically physician or hospital dependent. (Ungraded good practice statement)
Spinal cord protection. Spinal cord injury (SCI) can be
a devastating complication that has a profound impact
on the beneﬁt of the procedure, given the higher risk of
mortality if it occurs. Although up to 70% of patients
will have some functional improvement after suffering
SCI, only 38% are reported to return to normal function.108 Those patients who do not have functional
improvement have an abysmal prognosis, with mortality
as high as 75% at 1 year.108,109
Given these poor results after SCI, a number of prevention strategies have been employed to mitigate risk,
including maintenance of LSA and hypogastric
patency,110 staging strategies for long-segment aortic
coverage,111 prophylactic CSF drainage, anemia prevention, permissive hypertension, steroid and naloxone therapy,112 burst suppression, permissive hypothermia, and
hyperoxygenation therapy. Most successful centers
employ a multimodal and systematic approach to SCI
prevention, with detailed protocols on management of
spinal drains, multidisciplinary coordination, and rescue
procedures for those presenting with delayed SCI.113
Techniques for spinal cord protection after thoracic
aortic surgery have evolved signiﬁcantly during the last
four decades.96 Paraplegia after TEVAR limited to the
DTA is uncommon (<5%) compared with open aneurysm repair, despite the observation that TEVAR invariably covers intercostal branches. This highlights the fact
that the cause of SCI after open and endovascular repair
is multifactorial and not simply related to cessation of
intercostal artery perfusion. However, there are data
demonstrating that increased aortic coverage leads to
a higher risk of SCI, supporting the notion that the intercostal arteries are in fact an important source of spinal
cord perfusion.114 Of note, protocols are published
describing the complex interaction between mean arterial pressure and spinal cord pressure.115
Somatosensory and motor evoked potentials permit
continuous monitoring of the spinal cord’s function,
assist in the early detection of SCI, and are popular techniques used in high-risk cases during open TAA repair or

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

69S

Volume 73, Number 1S

when patients are undergoing branched or fenestrated
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR).116,117 They are
rarely used in the setting of simple TEVAR.
Indications for prophylactic CSF drainage catheter
placement during TEVAR are controversial, and CSF
drains should be used as only one part of a multimodal
protocol to reduce the risk of SCI. Some authors recommend selective CSF drain placement for only high-risk
patients, whereas others perform CSF drain placement
preoperatively routinely.113,117-119 Risk factors for SCI after
TEVAR include length of aortic coverage (especially
when it is in excess of 15 cm of the DTA) and existence
of infrarenal aortic disease.120 In addition to these
anatomic risk factors, chronic renal failure may also be
an important risk factor.121 According to one systematic
review, the incidence of SCI after TEVAR with and
without prophylactic CSF drain placement was 3.2%
and 3.5%, respectively.122 In contrast, a 2016 systematic
review of the use of lumbar drains in open repair and
TEVAR (including three randomized trials) concluded
that spinal drains prevent early SCI with an OR of 0.48
(95% CI, 0.30-0.76; P ¼ .002), absolute risk reduction of
4.5%, and number needed to treat of 23 in favor of CSF
drainage.123
There are many differences in institutional protocols for
CSF drain management. They vary widely from where to
level the drain (earlobe or spinal exit site), draining to a
target pressure vs to a target volume, what the baseline
pressure should be and the units (centimeters of water
or millimeters of mercury), and the maximum amount
of ﬂuid that should be drained (per hour, per 4 hours,
or per day) to avoid intracranial bleeding or herniation.
Other adjunctive methods of SCI risk reduction include
the routine use of naloxone and steroids, avoidance of
long-acting narcotics, and hemoglobin management
strategies, which vary across centers.113,124 An often-used
hemoglobin target is >10 mg/dL, especially for patients
who have symptoms of SCI. Rescue protocols also exist,
which include a further increase in systemic blood pressure to >100 mm Hg, a drop in the CSF drain pressure
(often 5 mm Hg or 7 mm Hg), transfusion to a target hemoglobin level of >10 mg/dL, and the use of steroids.125
Recommendation 17: We recommend increasing
perfusion pressure through controlled hypertension
(mean arterial pressure >90 mm Hg) as a component
of a spinal cord protection protocol in patients at high
risk of SCI because of extensive coverage length
(>15 cm), poor hypogastric perfusion (occluded or significantly stenosed hypogastric arteries), or coverage of
important collaterals (subclavian/hypogastric arteries).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 18: We recommend prophylactic
CSF drainage for SCI protection in TEVAR cases that are
deemed high risk (covering extensive length of descending aorta; previous aortic coverage, including EVAR and

open AAA repair; compromised pelvic perfusion with
diseased or occluded common or internal iliac arteries;
diseased or occluded vertebral arteries; planned LSA
coverage; or deemed high risk by the operating surgeon).
Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of
Evidence: B (Moderate)
Management of the LSA and vertebrobasilar system
An adequate proximal landing zone requires coverage of
the LSA in 26% to 40% of patients undergoing TEVAR.109,126
In the ﬁrst U.S. TEVAR regulatory trial,80 all patients underwent prophylactic LSA revascularization before TEVAR if
the operative plan called for LSA coverage. Guidelines on
LSA revascularization were published in 2009 by the
SVS,127 yet there remains variability in this practice with
continued debate on the indications for revascularization.
Some surgeons perform revascularization routinely, some
selectively, and some perform LSA revascularization only
if symptoms occur after TEVAR.127,128 There are four major
concerns with coverage of the LSA: spinal cord ischemia,
stroke, arm ischemia, and vertebrobasilar ischemia.
Spinal cord ischemia. Understanding the anatomy of
the LSA branches and the critical anterior spinal artery
is important as the LSA provides inﬂow into the anterior
spinal artery through multiple pathways. There is general
consensus that patients with focal disease and who are
treated with shorter (#15 cm) stent graft lengths are at
lower risk for spinal cord ischemia.114,126 Data from the
European Collaborators on Stent/graft Techniques for
Aortic Aneurysm Repair (EUROSTAR) registry, one of the
largest series with speciﬁc attention to TEVAR and
anatomy, demonstrated rates of spinal cord ischemia
and stroke as high as 8.4% when there was LSA coverage
without revascularization compared with 0% in those
patients who underwent prophylactic LSA revascularization (P ¼ .049).109
After reports of lower spinal cord ischemia rates in
experimental, sequential, and progressive embolization
of spinal vessels in animal models,129 many have advocated for staging the coverage of large segments of the
aorta to allow preconditioning or even purposeful spinal
artery embolization before extensive TEVAR.130
Stroke. The incidence of stroke during and identiﬁed
after TEVAR for TAA generally ranges from 3.2% to
6.2%,131 and it may be lethal in one third of these
cases.132 However, this range may vary according to the
indication for TEVAR. A meta-analysis of the Cooksponsored multicenter trials demonstrated even lower
rates in certain populations of patients, with a 30-day
stroke rate of 0% in the 56 patients treated for PAU. It
was also only 2.4% in the 329 patients treated for TAA.133
There is published consensus that coverage of the LSA
is associated with higher risk of stroke with TEVAR,
despite the fact that the stroke may not always be in
the posterior circulation. A series of 285 TEVAR patients
showed that coverage of the LSA was associated with

70S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

an 11% stroke rate compared with 3% when it was not
covered.134 The current debate centers on what interventions may reduce this risk. Approaches to prevent stroke
include careful manipulation of wires and catheters near
the carotid vessels, denitrogenation devices, accurate imaging and positioning of devices, routine LSA revascularization, and thorough understanding of each patient’s
arch and cerebral anatomy. A systematic review of 27
studies found a stroke rate of 5.6% associated with LSA
coverage and a reduction to 3.1% with LSA revascularization (not statistically signiﬁcant).135 In the Medtronic Outcomes of Thoracic Endovascular Repair (MOTHER)
registry of 1010 TEVAR patients, stroke was 2.2% without
coverage of LSA, 9.1% with coverage and no revascularization, and 5.1% with LSA coverage and revascularization,
supporting routine LSA revascularization.136 The largest
systematic review and meta-analysis support these ﬁndings. A review137 published in 2017 evaluated the incidence of stroke in 2594 patients treated with TEVAR
and found the incidence in patients when the LSA was
uncovered to be 3.2% (95% CI, 1.0-6.5). When the LSA
was covered but revascularized, the stroke rate was
5.3% (95% CI, 2.6-8.6) compared with 8.0% (95% CI, 4.112.9) when the vessel was covered without revascularization. Despite these data, selective LSA revascularization
strategies are not embraced by some because of concerns for prolonging the procedure, complications of
revascularization operations, and a perception that patients at elevated risk for subclavian artery ischemia can
be identiﬁed ahead of time.138
There are two scenarios in which LSA revascularization
should always be considered to reduce perioperative
stroke, even in “selective” approaches. Most concerning
is when a nonrevascularized vertebral artery ends in the
posterior inferior cerebellar artery, which would risk
causing inadequate ﬂow through the circle of Willis
into the posterior cerebral circulation.139 In addition,
with a dominant left vertebral artery (66%-75% of patients) in the presence of an absent, atretic, or diseased
right vertebral artery, nonrevascularization of the LSA increases the risk for posterior cerebral ischemia.
Arm ischemia and vertebrobasilar insufﬁciency. Left
arm ischemia symptoms may range from none to a
frankly threatened limb. Special consideration should
be given to LSA revascularization and left arm perfusion
for patients at risk of coronary ischemia due to a prior
left internal mammary artery (LIMA) to left anterior
descending artery coronary bypass graft as well as for
those with existing arteriovenous ﬁstulas in the left arm.
Although ﬂow reversal in the vertebral artery is common
after LSA coverage, most patients are asymptomatic
from this hemodynamic perturbation. However, some
may suffer from subclavian steal syndrome and symptomatic vertebrobasilar insufﬁciency manifested as syncope, diplopia, or vertigo. In one series, upper extremity
ischemia occurred 12% to 20% of the time after LSA

coverage, although <40% of patients with symptoms of
arm ischemia underwent delayed LSA revascularization.140,141 Because presentation of ischemic symptoms
of the arm is often delayed, with time to presentation
ranging from 2 days to 26 months, revascularization can
typically be addressed on a less urgent basis.
Additional considerations. The Knowledge and
Encounter Research Unit performed a systematic literature review and meta-analysis relating to the effect of
LSA coverage on the morbidity and mortality of patients
undergoing TEVAR.142 This analysis found that coverage
of the LSA without revascularization compared with
coverage with revascularization was associated with
trends toward increased risk of spinal cord ischemia (OR,
2.69; 95% CI, 0.75-9.68), anterior circulation stroke (OR,
2.58; 95% CI, 0.82-8.09), arm ischemia (OR, 47.7; 95% CI,
9.9-229.3), and vertebrobasilar ischemia (OR, 10.8; 95% CI,
3.17-36.7). More data have been published since 2009,
such as a large single-center series in which the combined stroke, paraplegia, and death rate comparing LSA
revascularization with coverage alone is a striking 0% vs
27.9% (P < .001).143 Additional ﬁndings from a 2017 report
revealed a higher 30-day stroke rate in cases in which the
LSA was covered compared with when it was revascularized (14.3% vs 1.9%, respectively; P ¼ .02).137 The
consistent nature of these ﬁndings (including another
meta-analysis144) supports elective LSA revascularization
to lower the risk of stroke and paraplegia. Certain limitations persist in the observational nature of these data,
including heterogeneous patients, infrequent and
inconsistently deﬁned outcomes of interest, and underpowered studies. Large databases often exclude speciﬁc
populations, such as trauma patients, or do not capture
anatomic variables or staged LSA revascularization.145
LSA surgical revascularization is typically performed
with a left carotid-subclavian bypass, subclavian to carotid transposition, or carotid-axillary bypass, with similar
patency (84%-96% at 5 years)128,146,147 for each technique.
On occasion, when the left vertebral artery arises directly
from the arch or is very proximal on the LSA, a separate
vertebral transposition or bypass is necessary. A transposition is relatively contraindicated when there is coronary
artery bypass from the LIMA as this would cause myocardial ischemia during subclavian artery clamping and,
potentially, difﬁculties in mobilizing the LSA cephalad if
it is tethered by the LIMA graft.
Complications of LSA revascularization, speciﬁcally in
the setting of TEVAR, have been studied. From the systematic review, the overall incidence of phrenic nerve
injury was low at 4.4% (95% CI, 1.6%-12.20%).142 Woo
et al141 examined 42 patients requiring LSA revascularization (5 transpositions, 37 bypasses), and only 1 patient
(2.4%) developed a phrenic nerve palsy. Zamor et al128
described 23 patients who underwent LSA revascularization (21 transpositions, 2 bypasses) before TEVAR and had
2 (8.7%) occurrences of vocal cord paralysis, one of which

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

71S

Volume 73, Number 1S

resolved spontaneously. Wound complications, such as
hematoma, lymphatic leak, and dissection, have also
been reported.148 A series of 101 LSA revascularizations
had a relatively high rate of permanent nerve injuries
(9%) along with a 6% lymph leak rate, requiring dietary
modiﬁcation alone.149 Despite these complications, the
series reported only a 2% ischemic stroke rate and 0%
SCI after TEVAR.
Despite a net beneﬁt of reduction in SCI and stroke,150
these complications certainly compromise the effectiveness of TEVAR. Off-label and emerging technologies offer
the potential to reduce the complications of LSA surgical
revascularization. For well over a decade, various techniques have been described for retrograde in situ graft
fenestration and stenting, in which the TEVAR graft is
punctured with a needle or laser and dilated and a
covered stent is inserted to bridge from the fenestration
to the LSA,151-153 although the impact of these techniques
on the durability of the graft is unknown. Chimney or
double-barrel stents have also been described, which
involve deployment of a covered stent in the LSA concomitantly with a thoracic stent graft, preserving ﬂow into the
LSA.154,155 More recently, TEVAR grafts with a branch for
the LSA have been developed and are actively being evaluated in clinical trials.156,157 Industry-sponsored trials of
fenestrated and branched distal aortic arch endografts
as well as multiple case reports of homemade or
physician-modiﬁed endografts will likely change the
approach to revascularization of the LSA in the future.
Recommendation 19: For elective TEVAR of a TAA
where coverage of the LSA is necessary for adequate
stent graft seal, we suggest preoperative or concomitant
LSA revascularization. Level of recommendation: Grade
1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 20: For patients in whom the anatomy to be treated compromises perfusion to vital structures, we recommend LSA revascularization. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Examples of these circumstances include the following:
Presence of a patent LIMA to coronary artery bypass graft
Termination of the left vertebral artery into the posterior
inferior cerebellar artery
Absent, atretic, or occluded right vertebral artery
Patent left arm arteriovenous shunt for dialysis
Prior infrarenal aortic operation or EVAR with previously
ligated or covered lumbar and middle sacral arteries
Planned extensive coverage ($15 cm) of the DTA
Hypogastric artery occlusion or signiﬁcant occlusive
disease
Presence of aneurysm disease in the young patient, for
whom future therapy involving the distal thoracic aorta
may be necessary
Recommendation 21: For patients with acute thoracic
emergencies, for whom TEVAR is required urgently and
coverage of the LSA is necessary, it is suggested that

revascularization be individualized and addressed on
the basis of the patient’s anatomy and urgency of the
procedure. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Renal protection strategies for TEVAR
Acute kidney injury (AKI) occurring during hospitalization
or after surgery has one of the highest risks of predicting
mortality, especially if the AKI progresses to dialysis. When
AKI occurs after TEVAR (w10%-15%), it increases the OR of
death to almost 10 even without a need for dialysis.158,159
Many risk factors for AKI are associated with patients undergoing TEVAR (advanced age, chronic renal failure, diabetes,
congestive heart failure, exposure to injectable contrast
dye, blood loss, major surgery) and possibly embolic injury
from endovascular manipulation within the aorta.
Importantly, contrast-induced nephropathy is the third
leading cause of AKI in hospitalized patients. Although it
is plagued with inconsistent deﬁnitions in the literature,
its incidence varies between 5% and 25%. Factors consistently shown to increase risk for contrast-induced nephropathy include age, diabetes, previous renal disease,
and escalating doses of contrast material.159-161
Strategies reported to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy are also marred by inconsistent reporting
standards and patient risk factors.160,161 These include
use of IVUS, minimizing the amount of contrast material
used during the operation, prehydration with normal saline (effectively increasing the volume of distribution of
intravascular contrast material), and use of nonionic,
iso-osmolar contrast agents.162,163 Research on pretreatment with statins is evolving.164
Recommendation 22: We recommend preprocedural
TEVAR planning to include sizing and landing sites
before the case to minimize procedural contrast material
use. If available, intraoperative CTA overlay technology
and IVUS should be used to minimize use of contrast
material. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 23: We recommend nonionic, hypoosmolar contrast material with attempts at minimizing
intra-arterial contrast agent use, especially in patients at
high risk for contrast-induced nephropathy. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 24: Depending on the patient’s
corporal density and the capacity of the X-ray equipment
available, we suggest diluting contrast material in the power injector when possible (typically to 50% or 70%). Adjustments in injection volume and time (faster injection
of smaller doses) can usually compensate when additional visibility is required. Level of recommendation:
Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Recommendation 25: We suggest the use of on-table
mapping software options on ﬁxed-imaging X-ray systems, such as roadmapping and CT fusion or overlay

72S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

reference, to aid in locating target landing sites and to
minimize need for repeated injections. If available, CT
overlay capability is extremely useful, especially in cases
in which location and cannulation of branches will be
needed. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak),
Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Implementation remark
In high-risk patients, placing and leaving wires, catheters, or sheaths in aortic branches can mark the location
of target branches and minimize the need for repeated
contrast angiography. A marker catheter may be
inserted through a small-diameter left brachial artery
sheath, for example, to mark the location of the LSA, or
a wire or catheter placed in the CA to mark its location
regardless of aortic or thoracic motion. This strategy
can also allow bailout techniques in case of branch
coverage.
Recommendation 26: To decrease the risk of atheroembolization, we recommend minimizing intra-aortic
wire, catheter, and endograft manipulation in the aortic
arch and at or above the visceral/renal arteries, especially
in patients with signiﬁcant aortic atheromatous disease
or thrombus. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 27: We recommend minimizing the
dwelling time of large or occlusive femoral artery sheaths
to decrease the risk of spinal cord ischemia and lower extremity ischemia that can lead to postoperative
compartment syndrome or rhabdomyolysis. In cases in
which a large sheath must be left in place for a prolonged time, it can be withdrawn into the external iliac
artery to allow antegrade ﬂow into the ipsilateral internal
iliac artery. Meticulous postoperative vigilance to detect
inadequate lower extremity perfusion or compartment
syndrome should be routine. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation for coverage or occlusion of the CA
during TEVAR
TAA treated by TEVAR may require coverage of the CA
in about 4% to 6% of cases.89,165 This can add 1 to 2.5 cm
or more of aorta to obtain a distal seal. In addition, the CA
is stenotic in approximately 20% of patients, most of
these being asymptomatic, presumably because of
collateral mesenteric ﬂow.166-168 Collaterals generally
arise from the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and
can be evaluated by selective SMA arteriography. Collateral pathways can also be identiﬁed using highresolution CTA reconstructions (ideally 1-mm cuts or
smaller, 16-slice or greater), and the anatomic correlations have been well described.169 In 94 cases of celiac
stenosis (13 with aberrant hepatic artery origins), 95%
had collateral ﬂow from the pancreaticoduodenal and
75% from the dorsal pancreatic arteries. These were
similar in cases in which the hepatic arteries originated

from the SMA (92% and 77%, respectively). In addition,
ﬂow from the left and right gastric arteries to the hepatic
arteries has been documented.169 Examples of CTArelevant ﬁndings that are important to note if CA
coverage is planned include signiﬁcant stenosis of the
SMA, occluded inferior mesenteric artery, large poststenotic dilation of the CA, and inability to visualize the
pancreaticoduodenal or dorsal pancreatic branches.
CTA alone may predict ischemia after CA coverage and
the need for CA revascularization through open (traditional open surgical management) or endovascular interventions (such as parallel [“snorkel”] stents or
fenestrations, given appropriate investigational device
exemption and local experience). However, CTA does
not demonstrate dynamic ﬂow and has been proved to
be incorrect as a single imaging modality in predicting
safe coverage of the CA after TEVAR by some
authors.170,171
If CA coverage occurs without revascularization, a high
degree of suspicion for ischemic complications should
be maintained postoperatively. Furthermore, ischemia
symptoms can range from mild reversible abdominal
pain to mild liver enzyme elevation to lethal ischemic
injury of the foregut, spleen, or liver. Balloon occlusion
has been reported by some in a small number of cases
(n ¼ 5 each) to determine suitability for CA coverage,
with unclear sensitivity and speciﬁcity.172 Thus, although
it is reasonable in cases in which the results from mesenteric angiography are equivocal, no strong recommendation can be made.
The largest series of CA coverage included only 31 cases.
The protocol was to evaluate CTA for collaterals and, if absent, to perform SMA angiography to evaluate for retrograde ﬂow into the celiac branches. If absent, the CA was
occluded with a balloon and the imaging repeated.
Notably, the authors aggressively and pre-emptively
treated SMA stenosis or cases in which partial SMA
coverage occurred during TEVAR (39% of cases) with
balloon-expandable stents. They documented one case
of lethal hepatic ischemia (despite subsequent open
bypass), one case of acalculous cholecystitis, and one
case of sigmoid colon ischemia thought to be embolic.173
Another study evaluated 18 TEVAR cases using only angiography (no balloon occlusion) before CA coverage. Two
patients had documented mesenteric ischemia after CA
coverage. One patient had self-limited abdominal pain
and two others had elevated white blood cell counts,
also self-limited. No elevation in the liver or pancreatic enzymes occurred after TEVAR.174,175 In another series, CA
coverage led to a delayed presentation of iatrogenic
chronic mesenteric ischemia despite only “encroaching”
on the CA and a widely patent SMA.176
If the seal zone includes the CA oriﬁce, an appropriately
sized endograft alone should occlude the origin of the
CA, obviating the need for embolization. If it is absolutely
needed, CA embolization should be done carefully and

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

73S

Volume 73, Number 1S

sparingly to avoid inadvertent extension of the embolic
material into the common CA trunk and risking foregut
ischemia. In cases of TEVAR covering the CA, vigilant
postoperative clinical examination and serial laboratory
studies should follow the early post-TEVAR period to
detect and to address foregut and hepatic ischemia
as early as possible to avoid morbid and lethal
complications.
Practice Statement: Although there are few highquality data, we suggest dedicated SMA angiography
through the SMA or CA with adequate imaging of the
entire SMA and CA mesenteric collateral system to precede TEVAR with intended or high risk for CA coverage.
(Ungraded good policy statement)
Recommendation 28: We recommend pre-emptive
SMA stenting with a balloon-expandable stent in cases
of >50% stenosis of the SMA in the following conditions:
before or after CA coverage or encroachment, with
TEVAR that is encroaching on the SMA origin, or in any
patient otherwise considered at high risk for postTEVAR mesenteric ischemia. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 29: In anticipation of high risk for CA
territory ischemia (nonvisualization of CA collateral
branches by CTA or dedicated SMA angiography), we
recommend open or endovascular revascularization of
the CA before TEVAR. Level of recommendation: Grade
1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Practice Statement: Maintain meticulous vigilance for
signs and symptoms of mesenteric and hepatic ischemia
early after CA coverage. (Ungraded good practice
statement)
Recommendation for access during TEVAR
Importantly, access-related issues remain a common
source of morbidity after TEVAR, although these complications are certainly decreasing with the increasing
lubricity and decreasing diameter of device delivery systems. In several early multicenter, industry-sponsored
trials, procedural failures ranged from 0.5% to 2% and
were almost all secondary to the inability to advance
the device through inadequate iliac arterial systems.80,89,90 There has been an effort recently to
decrease the size of the sheaths and to improve the
trackability of TEVAR delivery systems. Nonetheless, a
study of a lower proﬁle device (sheath sizes 16F-20F) still
had a 2% failure to implant secondary to access
issues.177
Depending on the size of the graft to be implanted, the
outer diameter of delivery systems can be larger than 24F
with some devices. One French is approximately 1/3 mm;
thus, a 24F outer diameter sheath is 8 mm in diameter. In
the setting of normal vessels with little tortuosity, the
vessel may stretch and allow delivery of a sheath that is
larger than the actual inner diameter of the vessel. However, increasing tortuosity or calciﬁcation can reduce the

effective inner diameter of the delivery vessel, leading to
the need for adjunctive methods of device delivery.
Several adjunctive measures can facilitate access in patients with small iliac vessels, including the use of more
proximal arteries as well as open or endovascular conduits.
Femoral access. Traditional open femoral exposure
during TEVAR involves exposing the common femoral
artery at the level of the inguinal ligament and establishing sites for proximal and distal control. Unlike endovascular AAA repair, in which medium- to large-diameter
sheaths are placed in both groins, TEVAR can usually be
accomplished through one femoral artery exposure with
the other reserved for diagnostic imaging through a 5F or
6F percutaneously placed sheath, if needed. When open
femoral artery exposure is performed, a transverse or
oblique skin incision is favored over the vertical approach
in the groin as it is associated with fewer wound complications. Wound complication rates (excluding hematomas) after endovascular repair with a vertical incision
are as high as 18%,178 whereas several studies with oblique incisions have reported virtually no infectious wound
complications.179,180
Percutaneous access of the common femoral artery for
TEVAR is also a common approach to access and is
increasing in frequency as surgeons become more
comfortable with it.181 A discussion of the pitfalls and
merits of individual closure devices is beyond the scope
of this document. However, several techniques have
been described for identiﬁcation of the femoral artery,
including access through a small transverse incision182,183
and ultrasound guidance,184,185 with reported success
rates ranging from 92% to 96%. Ultrasound guidance
has become a standard component of percutaneous
endovascular access at most institutions as it helps the
operator identify and avoid anatomic factors that could
lead to failure of closure, such as coursing through the
inguinal ligament or calcium on the anterior wall of the
artery. One study reported that the use of ultrasound
led to a 10-fold increase in successful percutaneous
EVAR procedures compared with those performed
without ultrasound (P ¼ .03).186
A meta-analysis performed of 3606 percutaneous arterial access attempts for endovascular aortic repair
included 469 percutaneous TEVAR procedures. The overall technical success rate was 94% per arterial access and
the groin complication rate was 3.6%, with only 1.6% of
patients requiring open repair of the groin.187 The most
common complication was groin hematoma (1.8%), followed by pseudoaneurysm (0.7%). Factors that improved
successful percutaneous access included ultrasound
guidance (96.4% with ultrasound vs 93.5% without; P ¼
.02) and a sheath size <20F (94.2% <20F vs 88.7%
$20F; P < .001).187 Other anatomic factors that have
been associated with improved success with a percutaneous approach include a >1-cm segment of mid common femoral artery without anterior calciﬁcation,

74S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

absence of severe scarring in the groin, native arterial access (as opposed to access in graft material), and access
vessel diameter >5 mm.182,184,186,187 Percutaneous
femoral access has a safety proﬁle that is comparable
to that of open femoral access in anatomically appropriate patients, and both approaches are appropriate
for TEVAR, even in the obese.188
Recommendation 30: If an open approach for access is
used, we recommend transverse or oblique incisions in
performing open femoral access for TEVAR. Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 31: We recommend using ultrasound guidance for percutaneous access to improve procedural success and to decrease the rate of major
complications. Level of recommendation: Grade 1
(Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Recommendation 32: We recommend that percutaneous access for TEVAR is safe and an acceptable alternative to open common femoral artery exposure if
certain anatomic criteria are met (eg, diameter of common femoral artery, lack of front wall calcium). Level of
recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)
Iliac or aortic access. Multiple industry-sponsored trials
of TEVAR have shown that the sizes of the common and
external iliac arteries remain a barrier to device delivery in
some patients. Atherosclerotic occlusive disease can be
treated with balloon angioplasty or use of the Dotter
technique with serially larger balloons and dilators to
facilitate transfemoral delivery of a device, but it should
be performed carefully with low-pressure inﬂations
starting with a small balloon to avoid iliac rupture.
Data from the early Food and Drug Administration and
prospective company-sponsored investigational device
exemption trials showed that iliac conduits were used
in 15% to 21% of patients.80,90,189 Improvement in the proﬁle and size of delivery systems has decreased this number signiﬁcantly. An industry-sponsored trial of a TEVAR
device with delivery systems that range from 16F to 20F
required an iliac conduit in only one (0.9%) patient.177
This low number was aided by strict exclusion criteria
that included iliac tortuosity, calciﬁcation, occlusive disease, and an inner wall diameter that was not adequate
for the required sheath diameter.177
A review of the National Surgical Quality Improvement
Program database showed that conduits were more
likely to be performed in women (15.7% female vs 5.8%
male; P < .001), patients who are current smokers, and
patients with a previous coronary intervention.190 The decision to use an iliac conduit should be made during the
planning phase of the case as attempts to deliver a large
device through clearly inadequate iliac vessels can lead
to prolonged operative times and increase the risk of
hemorrhage and death secondary to iliac disruption.
The anatomic factors that increase the need for conduits

include tortuous iliac arteries, heavy calciﬁcation, and
small vessel size relative to the chosen device.
An open surgical iliac conduit is usually performed with
a retroperitoneal exposure of the common iliac artery or
distal aorta through an oblique incision in the lower
quadrant of the abdomen. The choice of common iliac
artery vs the aorta should be based on CTA ﬁndings,
such as calciﬁcation and artery size. A 10-mm prosthetic
conduit is best used because it will facilitate delivery of
all currently available stent graft systems. The anastomosis can be performed in an end-to-side or end-toend fashion. The conduit can be tunneled to the groin
or brought subcutaneously through the abdomen so
that it creates an angle that allows straight delivery. At
the completion of the procedure, the conduit can be
oversewn near the anastomosis. Alternatively, the distal
end can be anastomosed to the common femoral artery
to bypass an occluded or injured external iliac artery
while also providing an easy conduit in the future if
further interventions are necessary.191
Direct puncture of the iliac artery and the aorta has also
been described with avoidance of the need for a conduit.
Most often, these arteriotomies are closed primarily,
especially in the absence of extensive atherosclerotic
occlusive disease.192
Recommendation 33: We recommend the use of iliac
conduits or direct iliac or aortic punctures for TEVAR delivery to facilitate access in patients with small (relative to
the chosen device), tortuous, or calciﬁed iliac vessels. The
decision to perform a conduit should be made in the
preoperative setting, when possible. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Endoconduit. In an effort to avoid the potential
increased morbidity and operative time associated with
a retroperitoneal exposure of the common iliac vessels or
distal aorta, the use of angioplasty and stenting as an
endoconduit has been reported.192 In general, a 10-mm
self-expanding covered stent graft is placed, but others
have advocated placing an EVAR limb with at least a 12mm distal diameter as an endoconduit. This can then be
dilated with balloon angioplasty to an appropriate size.
Some authors have advocated for intentional rupture of
the iliac vessel within the stent grafted portion, given that
the vessel wall or atherosclerosis can continue to impede
device delivery even after endoconduit placement, especially when there is bulky calciﬁc disease.193
In a retrospective series comparing open iliac conduit
with endoconduit including 39 patients (23 open conduits, 16 endoconduits), the iliofemoral complication
rate was 20% for the entire cohort, but it was lower in
the endoconduit group compared with the open
conduit (12.5% vs 26.1%). This was not statistically
different secondary to small numbers of patients.194
Other published experiences with this technique include
small cohorts of patients.195-197

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

75S

Volume 73, Number 1S

Recommendation 34: We suggest that endoconduits
to facilitate access for TEVAR are an acceptable alternative to an open iliac conduit in some cases, but few
data comparing them with an iliac conduit or longterm data describing their outcomes over time are available. Level of recommendation: Grade 2 (Weak), Quality of Evidence: C (Low)
Carotid-axillary access. Use of the carotid and axillary
arteries to deliver and to deploy thoracic stent grafts
has been described,198 but these cases have been
reserved for extreme situations in which access cannot
be obtained from the lower extremities because of iliac
or distal aortic occlusion. An approach to the DTA from
the arch vessels means that the stent graft will be
deployed in an inverted fashion (unless predeployed and
reinserted into the sheath, which would be an off-label
use of the device) and may be associated with an
increased risk of neurologic complications due to the
wires and sheaths crossing the arch of the aorta.
More commonly, the brachial or axillary arteries are
used to facilitate access from below by the so-called
body ﬂoss technique with a brachiofemoral or axillofemoral wire, in which a wire is passed from the right
brachial or axillary artery and brought out the ipsilateral
groin, typically by snaring the wire. With tension on
both ends, this technique can allow delivery of a stiff device through a tortuous and otherwise impassable aorta.
Care should be taken not to injure the origins of the brachiocephalic vessels with the stiff wire passing through
them. A long sheath (typically 5F or 6F) should be used
to protect these vessels, and it can be used to cover the
tip of the delivery system on the stent graft and to facilitate delivery using a “push-pull” technique.
Practice Statement: Brachiocephalic access for TEVAR
device delivery may be acceptable in situations in which
transfemoral or iliac access is not available. However,
more data are required to determine whether carotidaxillary artery access for delivery of a thoracic endograft
is associated with increased complications. (Ungraded
good practice statement)
Recommendations for treatment of symptomatic and
ruptured TAAs
Early mortality after open repair of ruptured DTA is high
as evidenced by a Swedish study from the preendovascular era that reported an in-hospital mortality
approaching 100%.199 The results with TEVAR have
been much more promising. A multicenter trial of acute
aortic catastrophes showed a mortality of 15% in the
ruptured arm.200 This compared favorably with the results of open repair from the National Inpatient Sample
database, which had an early mortality of 45%.201 Indeed,
a review of the Medicare database from 2004 to 2007
showed that the percentage of ruptured DTA patients
who were treated with TEVAR increased from 17% in
2004 to 49% in 2007 (a total of 1033 patients treated),

with a signiﬁcant decrease in mortality from 45% in
open repair to 24% with TEVAR (P < .001).202 It is likely
that there is an early survival advantage to treating
ruptured DTA with TEVAR over open repair.
There appear to be advantages to TEVAR over open
repair of the DTA beyond survival. A meta-analysis
comparing 224 patients from 28 articles showed a significantly lower incidence of perioperative myocardial
infarction (11% vs 3.1%; P < .05) compared with open
repair.203 In addition, a comparison of 161 patients from
7 hospitals during a 15-year period showed a lower incidence of the composite end point of stroke, paraplegia,
and death in the TEVAR cohort compared with open
repair (36.2% vs 21.7%; P < .05), but no difference was
seen in the individual outcomes because of small
numbers.204 Long-term outcomes have been reasonable
after TEVAR for ruptured DTA. A review of 21 patients
treated with TEVAR with a median follow-up of
>5 years reported a late mortality of 52% with only one
known aorta-related death.205
Most of the large series evaluating TEVAR for ruptured
DTA are from administrative databases, such as Medicare
and the National Inpatient Sample, and lack the
anatomic granularity that would allow meaningful comparison of the cohort of patients undergoing each procedure (open TAA repair vs TEVAR). In addition, it is
difﬁcult to determine the state of the patient at the
time of presentation as it is possible that one approach
is favored in stable patients and another is used when
a patient presents in extremis. Within these limitations,
it appears that TEVAR for ruptured DTA is associated
with improved survival and lower morbidity compared
with open repair.5
Recommendation 35: We recommend TEVAR over
open repair for the treatment of ruptured DTA when it
is anatomically feasible. Level of recommendation:
Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B (Moderate)

SURVEILLANCE AFTER TEVAR
Surveillance after TEVAR is critical to identify endoleaks
after initial placement and to evaluate whether longterm complications appear, such as migration, aneurysm
expansion despite no evidence of endoleak (type V endoleak, so-called endotension), new endoleaks, device failure (fracture, migration, component separation),
stenosis, or occlusion. In addition, long-term evaluation
may detect signs of graft infection. The most often reported protocol after TEVAR for aneurysm surveillance
is clinical examination and CT scans at 1 month,
6 months, and yearly thereafter.206,207 When TEVAR is
placed for emergent indications, earlier evaluation either
during hospitalization or within 1 week of placement
may be warranted.208
Difﬁculties in establishing surveillance protocols
include variability in reporting of institutional protocols
as well as reported rates of reintervention vs reporting

76S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

of new ﬁndings in the surveillance protocols. Low reintervention rates could imply the absence of signiﬁcant ﬁndings on surveillance imaging or a lack of intervention
despite the presence of new ﬁndings. Conversely, high
reported reintervention rates could reﬂect either a high
rate of signiﬁcant ﬁndings or simply a more aggressive
approach to the ﬁndings treated conservatively at other
institutions. Recent evidence also shows that TEVAR
surveillance may be best tailored to the indication
for the TEVAR as certain pathologic processes may
warrant more frequent surveillance. A publication by
Meena et al209 evaluated 203 patients treated with
TEVAR with follow-up CT scans and demonstrated
aorta-related complications in 35% of patients, with sac
expansion accounting for 77% of these.
Whereas long-term outcomes are beginning to be reported, patients undergoing TEVAR for DTA aneurysm
with straightforward anatomy and who ﬁt within the device’s instructions for use criteria rarely require late reintervention. In a series of 82 patients treated for TAA,
only 11% required reintervention at 60 months of
follow-up.206 Indications for reintervention were type I
endoleaks in about 7% and infection and type III endoleaks in 1% each. No secondary intervention was performed for aneurysm expansion or endograft collapse.206
In contrast, 63 consecutive patients treated in Essen,
Germany, with TEVAR for PAU were followed up for a
mean of 46 months. In this experience, 19% required
reintervention for late endoleaks (6.3%), with the
remainder requiring reintervention secondary to disease
progression.210 A review of the outcomes captured in the
Hospital Episode Statistics database in England revealed
that 6% of patients treated for intact aortic aneurysms
required reintervention within 30 days after TEVAR.211
The average time to any reintervention was 28 months.
In contrast to those treated for intact TAA, 33% of patients treated with TEVAR for ruptured aneurysms will
require additional intervention at 3 years.211
Concern for long-term, cumulative radiation exposure
has been growing, especially when TEVAR is performed
in younger patients. Patients treated with TEVAR for
intact aneurysms with favorable imaging ﬁndings by
CTA at 1 month and 6 months are unlikely to have any
complication in their lifetime that will need reintervention.212 Given the good outcomes exempliﬁed in the
two scenarios described before, it is not surprising that
delayed follow-up imaging (>1.5 years) has been shown
to be relatively safe in midterm studies.213 However, there
is an absence of long-term data supporting this
approach. In addition, late stent graft collapse, infection,
and endograft disruption can occur,214 and late conversion to open repair occurs at an average of 5 years and
up to 98 months after initial implantation, suggesting
that patients undergoing TEVAR should be observed
for life.101,215

Recommendation 36: We recommend contrastenhanced CT scanning at 1 month and 12 months after
TEVAR and then yearly for life, with consideration of
more frequent imaging if an endoleak or other abnormality of concern is detected at 1 month. Level of recommendation: Grade 1 (Strong), Quality of Evidence: B
(Moderate)
Implementation remarks about surveillance.
1. In cases in which the 1-month CT scan demonstrates
morphologic endograft concerns (eg, “bird beaking,”
infolding of endograft), endoleaks, or evidence of sac
growth and in high-risk patients (eg, those treated
for PAU or ruptured aortic aneurysms), repeated CTA
with arterial and delayed phase imaging is recommended within 6 months.
2. In cases at low risk for expansion, such as those with a
shrinking aneurysm sac and >3 years of stability, noncontrast-enhanced CT of the chest may be used to
follow aneurysm sac size and component stability.
3. We can recommend neither eliminating TEVAR surveillance nor extending it further than annually,
given the lack of long-term evidence of safety and
because of evidence of aneurysm growth and new
endoleaks reported, despite a previously sealed
aneurysm.

SPECIAL TAA CONSIDERATIONS
Guidelines for hospital privileges have been established
for TEVAR by the SVS.216 Calligaro et al217 suggested that
the requirements for TEVAR include full basic privileges
with either 10 TEVARs within the last 2 years or less
than this minimum for surgeons with a robust EVAR
experience, deﬁned as 25 EVARs with 12 as the primary
operator. Trainees should also be able to manage complex aortic patients as well as to perform adjunctive procedures, including iliac conduits and carotid-subclavian
bypass grafting.
The relationship between volume and outcomes has
been explored for TEVAR,218-220 and the data supporting
or refuting such a relationship are poor, mainly because
these studies are typically underpowered and the data
are heterogeneous, including EVAR and TEVAR, or
TEVAR when used to treat multiple pathologic processes
(ie, aneurysm and dissection). One study using the Medicare claims database from 1999 to 2007 documented a
mortality rate for TEVAR in low-volume centers of 9%
to 10%, whereas mortality was 7% in high-volume TEVAR
centers. Despite these gross mortality differences, a
multivariable model for mortality failed to show volume
as a predictor (P ¼ .328).218 A second study using Medicare Provider and Analysis Review data also found no association between TEVAR volume and mortality.219
Finally, a study using a Medicare Provider and Analysis
Review data set in 10,000 patients undergoing TEVAR
found no clear relationship between hospital volume

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

77S

Volume 73, Number 1S

effect and survival. However, these same practitioners
suggested that using a mixed effects Cox model demonstrated an “independent hospital effect” associated with
certain hospitals, with a death 50% of what occurred at
other hospitals.220 These data suggest that at present,
no clear conclusion can be drawn between hospital volume and outcomes after TEVAR. Importantly, even fewer
data are available to examine the role of individual clinician TEVAR volume and outcomes.

CONCLUSIONS
TEVAR is used to treat a myriad of aortic diseases.
Whereas there are no randomized, controlled trials
comparing open and endovascular DTA repair directly
and probably never will be, consensus documents, large
administrative data sets, and meta-analyses have
strongly suggested that TEVAR for isolated descending
TAAs should be the primary method of repair in both
the elective and emergent setting based on improved
short-term and midterm mortality as well as morbidity.

REFERENCES
1. Gloviczki P, Comerota AJ, Dalsing MC, Eklof BG, Gillespie DL,
Gloviczki ML, et al. The care of patients with varicose veins
and associated chronic venous diseases: clinical practice
guidelines of the Society for Vascular Surgery and the
American Venous Forum. J Vasc Surg 2011;53(Suppl):2S-48S.
2. Fleisher LA, Fleischmann KE, Auerbach AD, Barnason SA,
Beckman JA, Bozkurt B, et al. 2014 ACC/AHA guideline on
perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management
of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol
2014;64:e77-137.
3. Fillinger MD, Greenberg RK, McKinsey JF, Chaikof EL; Society
for Vascular Surgery Ad Hoc Committee on TEVAR Reporting Guidelines. Reporting standards for thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR). J Vasc Surg 2010;52:1022-33.
4. Guyatt
GH,
Alonso-Coello
P,
Schünemann
HJ,
Djulbegovic B, Nothacker M, Lange S, et al. Guideline panels
should seldom make good practice statements: guidance
from the GRADE Working Group. J Clin Epidemiol 2016;80:
3-7.
5. Alsawas M, Zaiem F, Larrea-Mantilla L, Almasri J, Erwin PJ,
Upchurch GR Jr, et al. Effectiveness of surgical interventions
for thoracic aortic aneurysms: a systematic review and
meta-analysis. J Vasc Surg 2017;66:1258-68.
6. Hiratzka LF, Bakris GL, Beckman JA, Bersin RM, Carr VF,
Casey DE Jr, et al. 2010 ACCF/AHA/AATS/ACR/ASA/SCA/
SCAI/SIR/STS/SVM guidelines for the diagnosis and management of patients with Thoracic Aortic Disease: a report
of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines,
American Association for Thoracic Surgery, American College of Radiology, American Stroke Association, Society of
Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists, Society for Cardiovascular
Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional
Radiology, Society of Thoracic Surgeons, and Society for
Vascular Medicine. Circulation 2010;121:e266-369.
7. Lee WA, Matsumura JS, Mitchell RS, Farber MA,
Greenberg RK, Azizzadeh A, et al. Endovascular repair of
traumatic thoracic aortic injury: clinical practice guidelines

of the Society for Vascular Surgery. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:
187-92.
8. Oladokun D, Patterson B, Sobocinski J, Karthikesalingam A,
Loftus I, Thompson M, et al. Systematic review of the
growth rates and inﬂuencing factors in thoracic aortic aneurysms. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2016;51:674-81.
9. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC WONDER.
Underlying cause of death 1999-2016. Available at: https://
wonder.cdc.gov/controller/datarequest/D76;jsessionid¼0B2
C1F1224200E7218A57C9E4FF682AF. Accessed February 11,
2018.
10. Bickerstaff LK, Pairolero PC, Hollier LH, Melton LJ, Van
Peenen HJ, Cherry KJ, et al. Thoracic aortic aneurysms: a
population-based study. Surgery 1982;92:1103-8.
11. Olsson C, Thelin S, Ståhle E, Ekbom A, Granath F. Thoracic
aortic aneurysm and dissection: increasing prevalence and
improved outcomes reported in a nationwide populationbased study of more than 14 000 cases from 1987 to
2002. Circulation 2006;114:2611-8.
12. LaRoy LL, Cormier P, Matalon T, Patel S, Turner D, Silver B.
Imaging of abdominal aortic aneurysms. AJR Am J
Roentgenol 1989;152:785-92.
13. Pleumeekers H, Hoes A, Van Der Does E, Van Urk H,
Hofman A, De Jong P, et al. Aneurysms of the abdominal
aorta in older adults. The Rotterdam study. Am J Epidemiol
1995;142:1291-9.
14. Biddinger A, Rocklin M, Coselli J, Milewicz DM. Familial
thoracic aortic dilatations and dissections: a case control
study. J Vasc Surg 1997;25:506-11.
15. Coady MA, Davies RR, Roberts M, Goldstein LJ, Rogalski MJ,
Rizzo JA, et al. Familial patterns of thoracic aortic aneurysms. Arch Surg 1999;134:361-7.
16. Hasham SN, Willing MC, Guo DC, Muilenburg A, He R,
Tran VT, et al. Mapping a locus for familial thoracic aortic
aneurysms and dissections (TAAD2) to 3p24-25. Circulation
2003;107:3184-90.
17. Guo DC, Papke CL, He R, Milewicz DM. Pathogenesis of
thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms. Ann N Y Acad
Sci 2006;1085:339-52.
18. Coady MA, Rizzo JA, Goldstein LJ, Elefteriades JA. Natural
history, pathogenesis, and etiology of thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections. Cardiol Clin 1999;17:615-35.
19. Moreno-Cabral C, Miller D, Mitchell R, Stinson E, Oyer P,
Jamieson S, et al. Degenerative and atherosclerotic aneurysms of the thoracic aorta. Determinants of early and late
surgical outcome. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1984;88:1020-32.
20. Juvonen T, Ergin MA, Galla JD, Lansman SL, McCullough JN,
Nguyen K, et al. Risk factors for rupture of chronic type B
dissections. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1999;117:776-86.
21. Dapunt OE, Galla JD, Sadeghi AM, Lansman SL, Mezrow CK,
de Asla RA, et al. The natural history of thoracic aortic aneurysms. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1994;107:1323-32.
22. Elefteriades JA. Natural history of thoracic aortic aneurysms: indications for surgery, and surgical versus nonsurgical risks. Ann Thorac Surg 2002;74:S1877-80; discussion:
S1892-8.
23. McNamara JJ, Pressler VM. Natural history of arteriosclerotic
thoracic aortic aneurysms. Ann Thorac Surg 1978;26:468-73.
24. Pressler V, McNamara J. Aneurysm of the thoracic aorta.
Review of 260 cases. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1985;89:50-4.
25. Davies RR, Goldstein LJ, Coady MA, Tittle SL, Rizzo JA,
Kopf GS, et al. Yearly rupture or dissection rates for thoracic
aortic aneurysms: simple prediction based on size. Ann
Thorac Surg 2002;73:17-28.
26. Crawford ES, DeNatale RW. Thoracoabdominal aortic
aneurysm: observations regarding the natural course of the
disease. J Vasc Surg 1986;3:578-82.

78S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

27. Cronenwett J, Murphy T, Zelenock G, Whitehouse W Jr,
Lindenauer S, Graham LM, et al. Actuarial analysis of variables associated with rupture of small abdominal aortic
aneurysms. Surgery 1985;98:472-83.
28. Cambria RA, Gloviczki P, Stanson AW, Cherry KJ, Bower TC,
Hallett JW, et al. Outcome and expansion rate of 57 thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms managed nonoperatively.
Am J Surg 1995;170:213-7.
29. Griepp RB, Ergin MA, Galla JD, Lansman SL, McCullough JN,
Nguyen KH, et al. Natural history of descending thoracic
and thoracoabdominal aneurysms. Ann Thorac Surg
1999;67:1927-30.
30. Upchurch GR Jr, Perry RJ. Thoracic and thoracoabdominal
aortic aneurysms: etiology, epidemiology, natural history,
medical management, and decision making. In:
Sidawy AN, Perler BA, editors. Rutherford’s vascular surgery
and endovascular therapy. 9th ed. Philadelphia: Elsevier;
2019. p. 970-86.
31. Colman MW, Hornicek FJ, Schwab JH. Spinal cord blood
supply and its surgical implications. J Am Acad Orthop
Surg 2015;23:581-91.
32. Nijenhuis RJ, Leiner T, Cornips EM, Wilmink JT, Jacobs MJ,
van Engelshoven JM, et al. Spinal cord feeding arteries at
MR angiography for thoracoscopic spinal surgery: feasibility
study and implications for surgical approach. Radiology
2004;233:541-7.
33. Madhwal S, Rajagopal V, Bhatt DL, Bajzer CT, Whitlow P,
Kapadia SR. Predictors of difﬁcult carotid stenting as
determined by aortic arch angiography. J Invasive Cardiol
2008;20:200-4.
34. Evangelista A, Maldonado G, Moral S, Teixido-Tura G,
Lopez A, Cuellar H, et al. Intramural hematoma and penetrating ulcer in the descending aorta: differences and similarities. Ann Cardiothorac Surg 2019;8:456-70.
35. Gravanis MB. Giant cell arteritis and Takayasu aortitis:
morphologic, pathogenetic and etiologic factors. Int J
Cardiol 2000;75(Suppl 1):S21-33; discussion: S35-6.
36. Koster MJ, Matteson EL, Warrington KJ. Recent advances in
the clinical management of giant cell arteritis and
Takayasu arteritis. Curr Opin Rheumatol 2016;28:211-7.
37. Moral S, Cuéllar H, Avegliano G, Ballesteros E, Salcedo MT,
Ferreira-González I, et al. Clinical implications of focal
intimal disruption in patients with type B intramural hematoma. J Am Coll Cardiol 2017;69:28-39.
38. Chou AS, Ziganshin BA, Charilaou P, Tranquilli M, Rizzo JA,
Elefteriades JA. Long-term behavior of aortic intramural
hematomas and penetrating ulcers. J Thorac Cardiovasc
Surg 2016;151:361-72.
39. Eggebrecht H, Plicht B, Kahlert P, Erbel R. Intramural
hematoma and penetrating ulcers: indications to endovascular treatment. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;38:
659-65.
40. Macedo TA, Stanson AW, Oderich GS, Johnson CM,
Panneton JM, Tie ML. Infected aortic aneurysms: imaging
ﬁndings. Radiology 2004;231:250-7.
41. Riesenman PJ, Brooks JD, Farber MA. Thoracic endovascular aortic repair of aortobronchial ﬁstulas. J Vasc Surg
2009;50:992-8.
42. Hoffman JL, Gray RG, Minich LL, Wilkinson SE, Heywood M,
Edwards R, et al. Screening for aortic aneurysm after
treatment of coarctation. Pediatr Cardiol 2014;35:47-52.
43. Lala S, Scali ST, Feezor RJ, Chandrekashar S, Giles KA,
Fatima J, et al. Outcomes of thoracic endovascular aortic
repair in adult coarctation patients. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:
369-81.
44. van Son JA, Konstantinov IE. Burckhard F. Kommerell and
Kommerell’s diverticulum. Tex Heart Inst J 2002;29:109-12.

45. Akiko T, Milner R, Takeyoshi O. Kommerell’s diverticulum in
the current era: a comprehensive review. Gen Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2015;63:245-69.
46. Austin EH, Wolfe WG. Aneurysm of aberrant subclavian artery with a review of the literature. J Vasc Surg 1985;2:571-7.
47. Cinà CS, Althani H, Pasenau J, Abouzahr L. Kommerell’s
diverticulum and right-sided aortic arch: a cohort study
and review of the literature. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:131-9.
48. Ota T, Okada K, Takanashi S, Yamamoto S, Okita Y. Surgical
treatment for Kommerell’s diverticulum. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2006;131:574-8.
49. Restrepo CS, Betancourt SL, Martinez-Jimenez S,
Gutierrez FR. Aortic tumors. Semin Ultrasound CT MR
2012;33:265-72.
50. Baril DT, Carroccio A, Palchik E, Ellozy SH, Jacobs TS,
Teodorescu V, et al. Endovascular treatment of complicated aortic aneurysms in patients with underlying arteriopathies. Ann Vasc Surg 2006;20:464-71.
51. Canaud L, Ozdemir BA, Bee WW, Bahia S, Holt P, Thompson M.
Thoracic endovascular aortic repair in management of
aortoesophageal ﬁstulas. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:248-54.
52. Onohara T, Nakamura Y, Kishimoto Y, Harada S, Fujiwara Y,
Saiki M, et al. Two cases of thoracic aortic aneurysm with
right aortic arch: comparison of two operative strategies for
hybrid thoracic endovascular repair. Ann Vasc Dis 2014;7:
343-6.
53. Yamasaki M, Hashimoto J, Yoshino K, Abe K, Misumi H.
Giant abdominal sarcoma that caused aortic rupture at the
twelfth thoracic level. J Cardiol Cases 2018;17:130-2.
54. Ho ML, Gutierrez FR. Chest radiography in thoracic polytrauma. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2009;192:599-612.
55. Ropp A, Waite S, Reede D, Patel J. Did I miss that: subtle
and commonly missed ﬁndings on chest radiographs. Curr
Probl Diagn Radiol 2015;44:277-89.
56. Jagannath AS, Sos TA, Lockhart SH, Saddekni S,
Sniderman KW. Aortic dissection: a statistical analysis of the
usefulness of plain chest radiographic ﬁndings. AJR Am J
Roentgenol 1986;147:1123-6.
57. Whitten CR, Khan S, Munneke GJ, Grubnic S. A diagnostic
approach to mediastinal abnormalities. Radiographics
2007;27:657-71.
58. Cullen EL, Lantz EJ, Johnson CM, Young PM. Traumatic
aortic injury: CT ﬁndings, mimics, and therapeutic options.
Cardiovasc Diagn Ther 2014;4:238-44.
59. Fiorucci B, Banafsche R, Jerkku T, Pichlmaier M, Kölbel T,
Rantner B, et al. Thoracic aortic aneurysmsddiagnosis and
treatment strategies. Dtsch Med Wochenschr 2019;144:
146-51.
60. Hansen NJ. Computed tomographic angiography of the
abdominal aorta. Radiol Clin North Am 2016;54:35-54.
61. Wang GJ, Fairman RM. Endovascular repair of the thoracic
aorta. Semin Intervent Radiol 2009;26:17-24.
62. Budovec JJ, Pollema M, Grogan M. Update on multidetector computed tomography angiography of the
abdominal aorta. Radiol Clin North Am 2010;48:283-309.
63. Fleischmann D. CT angiography: injection and acquisition
technique. Radiol Clin North Am 2010;48:237-47.
64. Ahmed S, Zimmerman SL, Johnson PT, Lai H, Kawamoto S,
Horton KM, et al. MDCT interpretation of the ascending
aorta with semiautomated measurement software:
improved reproducibility compared with manual techniques. J Cardiovasc Comput Tomogr 2014;8:108-14.
65. Entezari P, Kino A, Honarmand AR, Galizia MS, Yang Y,
Collins J, et al. Analysis of the thoracic aorta using a semiautomated post processing tool. Eur J Radiol 2013;82:1558-64.
66. Strobl FF, Sommer WH, Haack M, Nikolaou K, Meimarakis G,
Koeppel TA, et al. [Computed tomography angiography as

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

79S

Volume 73, Number 1S
the basis for optimized therapy planning before endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR)]. Radiologe 2013;53:495-502.
67. Stojanovska J, Rodriguez K, Mueller GC, Agarwal PP. MR
imaging of the thoracic aorta. Magn Reson Imaging Clin N
Am 2015;23:273-91.
68. Holloway BJ, Rosewarne D, Jones RG. Imaging of thoracic
aortic disease. Br J Radiol 2011;84(Spec No 3):S338-54.
69. Miyazaki M, Akahane M. Non-contrast enhanced MR angiography: established techniques. J Magn Reson Imaging
2012;35:1-19.
70. Janosi RA, Gorla R, Rogmann K, Kahlert P, Tsagakis K,
Dohle DS, et al. Validation of intravascular ultrasound for
measurement of aortic diameters: comparison with multidetector computed tomography. Minim Invasive Ther Allied Technol 2015;24:289-95.
71. Han SM, Elsayed RS, Ham SW, Mahajan A, Fleischman F,
Rowe VL, et al. Comparison of intravascular ultrasound- and
centerline computed tomography-determined aortic diameters during thoracic endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc
Surg 2017;66:1184-91.
72. Lewington S, Clarke R, Qizilbash N, Peto R, Collins R; Prospective Studies Collaboration. Age-speciﬁc relevance of
usual blood pressure to vascular mortality: a meta-analysis
of individual data for one million adults in 61 prospective
studies. Lancet 2002;360:1903-13.
73. Neal B, MacMahon S, Chapman N; Blood Pressure Lowering
Treatment Trialists’ Collaboration. Effects of ACE inhibitors,
calcium antagonists, and other blood-pressure-lowering
drugs: results of prospectively designed overviews of randomised trials. Blood Pressure Lowering Treatment Trialists’
Collaboration. Lancet 2000;356:1955-64.
74. Evans J, Powell JT, Schwalbe E, Loftus IM, Thompson MM.
Simvastatin
attenuates
the
activity
of
matrix
metalloprotease-9 in aneurysmal aortic tissue. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2007;34:302-3.
75. Ockene IS, Miller NH. Cigarette smoking, cardiovascular
disease, and stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. American
Heart Association Task Force on Risk Reduction. Circulation
1997;96:3243-7.
76. Kihara T, Yamagishi K, Iso H, Tamakoshi A; JACC Study
Group. Passive smoking and mortality from aortic dissection or aneurysm. Atherosclerosis 2017;263:145-50.
77. Coselli JS, LeMaire SA, Miller CC 3rd, Schmittling ZC,
Koksoy C, Pagan J, et al. Mortality and paraplegia after
thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair: a risk factor
analysis. Ann Thorac Surg 2000;69:409-14.
78. Barbato JE, Kim JY, Zenati M, Abu-Hamad G, Rhee RY,
Makaroun MS, et al. Contemporary results of open repair of
ruptured descending thoracic and thoracoabdominal
aortic aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:667-76.
79. Cowan JA, Dimick JB, Henke PK, Huber TS, Stanley JC,
Upchurch GR. Surgical treatment of intact thoracoabdominal
aortic aneurysms in the United States: hospital and surgeon
volume-related outcomes. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:1169-74.
80. Makaroun MS, Dillavou ED, Kee ST, Sicard G, Chaikof E,
Bavaria J, et al. Endovascular treatment of thoracic aortic
aneurysms: results of the phase II multicenter trial of the
GORE TAG thoracic endoprosthesis. J Vasc Surg 2005;41:1-9.
81. Heijmen RH, Deblier IG, Moll FL, Dossche KM, van den
Berg JC, Overtoom TT, et al. Endovascular stent-grafting for
descending thoracic aortic aneurysms. Eur J Cardiothorac
Surg 2002;21:5-9.
82. Chiu P, Goldstone AB, Schaffer JM, Lingala B, Miller DC,
Mitchell RS, et al. Endovascular versus open repair of intact
descending thoracic aortic aneurysms. J Am Coll Cardiol
2019;73:643-51.

83. Patel HJ, Sood V, Williams DM, Dasika NL, Diener AC,
Deeb GM. Late outcomes with repair of penetrating
thoracic aortic ulcers: the merits of an endovascular
approach. Ann Thorac Surg 2012;94:516-22; discussion:
522-3.
84. Day C, Buckenham T. Endovascular repair of the thoracic
aorta: predictors of 30-day mortality in patients on the New
Zealand Thoracic Aortic Stent Database (NZ TAS). Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;37:160-5.
85. Patterson BO, Vidal-Diez A, Holt PJ, Scali ST, Beck AW,
Thompson MM. Predicting mid-term all-cause mortality in
patients undergoing elective endovascular repair of a
descending thoracic aortic aneurysm. Ann Surg 2016;264:
1162-7.
86. Abraha I, Romagnoli C, Montedori A, Cirocchi R. Thoracic
stent graft versus surgery for thoracic aneurysm. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2016;6:CD006796.
87. Abraha I, Romagnoli C, Montedori A, Cirocchi R. Thoracic
stent graft versus surgery for thoracic aneurysm. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2009;1:CD006796.
88. Bavaria JE, Appoo JJ, Makaroun MS, Verter J, Yu ZF,
Mitchell RS, et al. Endovascular stent grafting versus open
surgical repair of descending thoracic aortic aneurysms in
low-risk patients: a multicenter comparative trial. J Thorac
Cardiovasc Surg 2007;133:369-77.
89. Matsumura JS, Cambria RP, Dake MD, Moore RD,
Svensson LG, Snyder S, et al. International controlled clinical
trial of thoracic endovascular aneurysm repair with the
Zenith TX2 endovascular graft: 1-year results. J Vasc Surg
2008;47:247-57.e3.
90. Fairman RM, Criado F, Farber M, Kwolek C, Mehta M,
White R, et al. Pivotal results of the Medtronic Vascular
Talent Thoracic Stent Graft System: the VALOR trial. J Vasc
Surg 2008;48:546-54.
91. Gore. Available at: http://www.goremedical.com. Accessed
March 24, 2016.
92. Valiant. Available at: http://www.medtronic.com/for-health
care-professionals/products-therapies/cardiovascular/aorticstent-grafts/ValiantThoracicStentGraft/indications-safetywarnings.html. Accessed March 24, 2016.
93. Cook. Zenith AlphaThoracic Endovascular Graft (P140016)
annual clinical update (2016). Available at: https://www.
cookmedical.com/products. Accessed February 26, 2018.
94. Bolton. Available at: https://terumoaortic.com/products/
relay/. Accessed March 24, 2016.
95. Food and Drug Administration. Cook Medical Inc. recalls
Zenith Alpha Thoracic Endovascular Graft for the treatment
of blunt traumatic aortic injury (BTAI) due to the potential
formation of thrombus inside the device after implantation.
Available at: https://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/Safety/
ListofRecalls/ucm571853.htm. Accessed February 26, 2018.
96. Escobar GA, Upchurch GR Jr. Management of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. Curr Probl Surg 2011;48:
70-133.
97. Evangelista A, Czerny M, Nienaber C, Schepens M,
Rousseau H, Cao P, et al. Interdisciplinary expert consensus
on management of type B intramural haematoma and
penetrating aortic ulcer. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2015;47:
209-17.
98. Gifford SM, Duncan AA, Greiten LE, Gloviczki P, Oderich GS,
Kalra M, et al. The natural history and outcomes for thoracic
and abdominal penetrating aortic ulcers. J Vasc Surg
2016;63:1182-8.
99. Ganaha F, Miller DC, Sugimoto K, Do YS, Minamiguchi H,
Saito H, et al. Prognosis of aortic intramural hematoma
with and without penetrating atherosclerotic ulcer: a clinical and radiological analysis. Circulation 2002;106:342-8.

80S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

100. Adkisson CD, Oldenburg WA, Belli EV, Harris AS, Walser EM,
Hakaim AG. Treatment of a mycotic descending thoracic
aortic aneurysm using endovascular stent-graft placement
and rifampin infusion with postoperative aspiration of the
aneurysm sac. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2011;45:765-8.
101. Davis FM, Miller DJ, Newton D, Arya S, Escobar GA. Successful treatment of a mycotic multifocal thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm as a late sequelae of
intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy: case report
and literature review. Ann Vasc Surg 2015;29:840.e9-13.
102. Mezzetto L, Treppiedi E, Scorsone L, Giacopuzzi S,
Perandini S, Macri M, et al. Thoracic aortic pseudoaneurysm
after esophageal perforation and mediastinitis caused by
accidental ingestion of a mutton bone: a case report on
staged endoscopic and endovascular treatments. Ann Vasc
Surg 2016;30:307.e15-9.
103. Setacci C, de Donato G, Setacci F. Endografts for the
treatment of aortic infection. Semin Vasc Surg 2011;24:
242-9.
104. Escobar GA, Eliason JL, Hurie J, Arya S, Rectenwald JE,
Coleman DM. Rifampin soaking Dacron-based endografts
for implantation in infected aortic aneurysmsdnew application of a time-tested principle. Ann Vasc Surg 2014;28:
744-8.
105. Heneghan RE, Singh N, Starnes BW. Successful emergent
endovascular repair of a ruptured mycotic thoracic aortic
aneurysm. Ann Vasc Surg 2015;29:843.e1-6.
106. van Dorp M, Gilbers M, Lauwers P, Van Schil PE,
Hendriks JM. Local anesthesia for percutaneous thoracic
endovascular aortic repair. Aorta (Stamford) 2016;4:78-82.
107. Hogendoorn W, Schlosser FJ, Muhs BE, Popescu WM. Surgical and anesthetic considerations for the endovascular
treatment of ruptured descending thoracic aortic aneurysms. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2014;27:12-20.
108. DeSart K, Scali ST, Feezor RJ, Hong M, Hess PJ Jr, Beaver TM,
et al. Fate of patients with spinal cord ischemia complicating thoracic endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc Surg
2013;58:635-42.e2.
109. Buth J, Harris PL, Hobo R, van Eps R, Cuypers P, Duijm L,
et al. Neurologic complications associated with endovascular repair of thoracic aortic pathology: incidence and risk
factors. A study from the European Collaborators on Stent/
Graft Techniques for Aortic Aneurysm Repair (EUROSTAR)
registry. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:1103-10.
110. Eagleton MJ, Shah S, Petkosevek D, Mastracci TM,
Greenberg RK. Hypogastric and subclavian artery patency
affects onset and recovery of spinal cord ischemia associated with aortic endografting. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:89-94.
111. O’Callaghan A, Mastracci TM, Eagleton MJ. Staged endovascular repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms
limits incidence and severity of spinal cord ischemia. J Vasc
Surg 2015;61:347-54.
112. Acher CW, Wynn MM, Hoch JR, Popic P, Archibald J,
Turnipseed WD. Combined use of cerebral spinal ﬂuid
drainage and naloxone reduces the risk of paraplegia in thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair. J Vasc Surg 1994;19:236-46.
113. Acher C, Acher CW, Marks E, Wynn M. Intraoperative neuroprotective interventions prevent spinal cord ischemia
and injury in thoracic endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc
Surg 2016;63:1458-65.
114. Melissano G, Kahlberg A, Bertoglio L, Chiesa R. Endovascular exclusion of thoracic aortic aneurysms with the 1- and
2-component Zenith TX2 TAA endovascular grafts: analysis
of 2-year data from the TX2 pivotal trial. J Endovasc Ther
2011;18:338-49.
115. Bobadilla JL, Wynn M, Tefera G, Acher CW. Low incidence of
paraplegia after thoracic endovascular aneurysm repair

with proactive spinal cord protective protocols. J Vasc Surg
2013;57:1537-42.
116. Keyhani K, Miller CC 3rd, Estrera AL, Wegryn T, Sheinbaum R,
Saﬁ HJ. Analysis of motor and somatosensory evoked potentials during thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic
aneurysm repair. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:36-41.
117. Banga PV, Oderich GS, Reis de Souza L, Hofer J, Cazares
Gonzalez ML, Pulido JN, et al. Neuromonitoring, cerebrospinal ﬂuid drainage, and selective use of iliofemoral conduits to minimize risk of spinal cord injury during complex
endovascular aortic repair. J Endovasc Ther 2016;23:139-49.
118. Arnaoutakis
DJ,
Arnaoutakis
GJ,
Beaulieu
RJ,
Abularrage CJ, Lum YW, Black JH 3rd. Results of
adjunctive spinal drainage and/or left subclavian artery
bypass in thoracic endovascular aortic repair. Ann
Vasc Surg 2014;28:65-73.
119. Keith CJ Jr, Passman MA, Carignan MJ, Parmar GM,
Nagre SB, Patterson MA, et al. Protocol implementation of
selective postoperative lumbar spinal drainage after
thoracic aortic endograft. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:1-8.
120. Bisdas T, Panuccio G, Sugimoto M, Torsello G,
Austermann M. Risk factors for spinal cord ischemia after
endovascular repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:1408-16.
121. Ullery BW, Cheung AT, Fairman RM, Jackson BM, Woo EY,
Bavaria J, et al. Risk factors, outcomes, and clinical manifestations of spinal cord ischemia following thoracic
endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:677-84.
122. Wong CS, Healy D, Canning C, Coffey JC, Boyle JR, Walsh SR.
A systematic review of spinal cord injury and cerebrospinal
ﬂuid drainage after thoracic aortic endografting. J Vasc
Surg 2012;56:1438-47.
123. Khan NR, Smalley Z, Nesvick CL, Lee SL, Michael LM 2nd.
The use of lumbar drains in preventing spinal cord injury
following thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair: an
updated systematic review and meta-analysis. J Neurosurg
Spine 2016;25:383-93.
124. Scali ST, Kim M, Kubilis P, Feezor RJ, Giles KA, Miller B, et al.
Implementation of a bundled protocol signiﬁcantly reduces risk of spinal cord ischemia after branched or
fenestrated endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:
409-23.
125. Estrera AL, Sheinbaum R, Miller CC, Azizzadeh A, Walkes JC,
Lee TY, et al. Cerebrospinal ﬂuid drainage during thoracic
aortic repair: safety and current management. Ann Thorac
Surg 2009;88:9-15.
126. Feezor RJ, Lee WA. Management of the left subclavian artery during TEVAR. Semin Vasc Surg 2009;22:159-64.
127. Matsumura JS, Lee WA, Mitchell RS, Farber MA, Murad MH,
Lumsden AB, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery Practice
Guidelines: management of the left subclavian artery with
thoracic endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:
1155-8.
128. Zamor KC, Eskandari MK, Rodriguez HE, Ho KJ,
Morasch MD, Hoel AW. Outcomes of thoracic endovascular
aortic repair and subclavian revascularization techniques.
J Am Coll Surg 2015;221:93-100.
129. Geisbusch S, Stefanovic A, Koruth JS, Lin HM, Morgello S,
Weisz DJ, et al. Endovascular coil embolization of
segmental arteries prevents paraplegia after subsequent
thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: an experimental
model. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2014;147:220-6.
130. Etz CD, Debus ES, Mohr FW, Kolbel T. First-in-man endovascular preconditioning of the paraspinal collateral
network by segmental artery coil embolization to prevent
ischemic spinal cord injury. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg
2015;149:1074-9.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

81S

Volume 73, Number 1S
131. Cheng D, Martin J, Shennib H, Dunning J, Muneretto C,
Schueler S, et al. Endovascular aortic repair versus open
surgical repair for descending thoracic aortic disease: a
systematic review and meta-analysis of comparative
studies. J Am Coll Cardiol 2010;55:986-1001.
132. Gutsche JT, Cheung AT, McGarvey ML, Moser WG, Szeto W,
Carpenter JP, et al. Risk factors for perioperative stroke after
thoracic endovascular aortic repair. Ann Thorac Surg
2007;84:1195-200.
133. Tsilimparis N, Debus S, Chen M, Zhou Q, Seale MM, Kolbel T.
Results from the Study to Assess Outcomes After Endovascular Repair for Multiple Thoracic Aortic Diseases
(SUMMIT). J Vasc Surg 2018;68:1324-34.
134. Contrella BN, Sabri SS, Tracci MC, Stone JR, Kern JA,
Upchurch GR, et al. Outcomes of coverage of the left subclavian artery during endovascular repair of the thoracic
aorta. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2015;26:1609-14.
135. Waterford SD, Chou D, Bombien R, Uzun I, Shah A,
Khoynezhad A. Left subclavian arterial coverage and stroke
during thoracic aortic endografting: a systematic review.
Ann Thorac Surg 2016;101:381-9.
136. Patterson BO, Holt PJ, Nienaber C, Fairman RM,
Heijmen RH, Thompson MM. Management of the left
subclavian artery and neurologic complications after
thoracic endovascular aortic repair. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:
1491-7.
137. Bradshaw RJ, Ahanchi SS, Powell O, Larion S, Brandt C,
Soult MC, et al. Left subclavian artery revascularization in
zone 2 thoracic endovascular aortic repair is associated
with lower stroke risk across all aortic diseases. J Vasc Surg
2017;65:1270-9.
138. Maldonado TS, Dexter D, Rockman CB, Veith FJ, Garg K,
Arko F, et al. Left subclavian artery coverage during thoracic
endovascular aortic aneurysm repair does not mandate
revascularization. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:116-24.
139. Thierfelder KM, Baumann AB, Sommer WH, Armbruster M,
Opherk C, Janssen H, et al. Vertebral artery hypoplasia: frequency and effect on cerebellar blood ﬂow characteristics.
Stroke 2014;45:1363-8.
140. Reece TB, Gazoni LM, Cherry KJ, Peeler BB, Dake M,
Matsumoto AH, et al. Reevaluating the need for left subclavian
artery revascularization with thoracic endovascular aortic
repair. Ann Thorac Surg 2007;84:1201-5; discussion: 1205.
141. Woo EY, Carpenter JP, Jackson BM, Pochettino A,
Bavaria JE, Szeto WY, et al. Left subclavian artery coverage
during thoracic endovascular aortic repair: a single-center
experience. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:555-60.
142. Rizvi AZ, Murad MH, Fairman RM, Erwin PJ, Montori VM. The
effect of left subclavian artery coverage on morbidity and
mortality in patients undergoing endovascular thoracic
aortic interventions: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
J Vasc Surg 2009;50:1159-69.
143. Holt PJ, Johnson C, Hinchliffe RJ, Morgan R, Jahingiri M,
Loftus IM, et al. Outcomes of the endovascular management
of aortic arch aneurysm: implications for management of the
left subclavian artery. J Vasc Surg 2010;51:1329-38.
144. von Allmen RS, Gahl B, Powell JT. Editor’s choiced
incidence of stroke following thoracic endovascular aortic
repair for descending aortic aneurysm: a systematic review
of the literature with meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2017;53:176-84.
145. Chung J, Kasirajan K, Veeraswamy RK, Dodson TF,
Salam AA, Chaikof EL, et al. Left subclavian artery coverage
during thoracic endovascular aortic repair and risk of perioperative stroke or death. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:979-84.
146. Scali ST, Chang CK, Pape SG, Feezor RJ, Berceli SA,
Huber TS, et al. Subclavian revascularization in the age of

thoracic endovascular aortic repair and comparison of
outcomes in patients with occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg
2013;58:901-9.
147. Duran M, Grotemeyer D, Danch MA, Grabitz K, Schelzig H,
Sagban TA. Subclavian carotid transposition: immediate
and long-term outcomes of 126 surgical reconstructions.
Ann Vasc Surg 2015;29:397-403.
148. Lee TC, Andersen ND, Williams JB, Bhattacharya SD,
McCann RL, Hughes GC. Results with a selective revascularization strategy for left subclavian artery coverage during
thoracic endovascular aortic repair. Ann Thorac Surg
2011;92:97-102.
149. van der Weijde E, Saouti N, Vos JA, Tromp SC, Heijmen RH.
Surgical left subclavian artery revascularization for thoracic
aortic stent grafting: a single-centre experience in 101 patients. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg 2018;27:284-9.
150. Cina CS, Safar HA, Lagana A, Arena G, Clase CM. Subclavian
carotid transposition and bypass grafting: consecutive
cohort study and systematic review. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:
422-9.
151. Ahanchi SS, Almaroof B, Stout CL, Panneton JM. In situ laser
fenestration for revascularization of the left subclavian artery during emergent thoracic endovascular aortic repair.
J Endovasc Ther 2012;19:226-30.
152. McWilliams RG, Murphy M, Hartley D, Lawrence-Brown MM,
Harris PL. In situ stent-graft fenestration to preserve the left
subclavian artery. J Endovasc Ther 2004;11:170-4.
153. Liu G, Qin J, Cui C, Zhao Z, Ye K, Shi H, et al. Endovascular
repair of aortic arch intramural hematoma and penetrating
ulcers with 810 nm in situ laser-assisted fenestration: preliminary results of a single-center. Lasers Surg Med 2018;50:
837-43.
154. Cires G, Noll RE Jr, Albuquerque FC Jr, Tonnessen BH,
Sternbergh WC 3rd. Endovascular debranching of the
aortic arch during thoracic endograft repair. J Vasc Surg
2011;53:1485-91.
155. Criado FJ. A percutaneous technique for preservation of
arch branch patency during thoracic endovascular aortic
repair (TEVAR): retrograde catheterization and stenting.
J Endovasc Ther 2007;14:54-8.
156. Patel HJ, Dake MD, Bavaria JE, Singh MJ, Filinger M,
Fischbein MP, et al. Branched endovascular therapy of the
distal aortic arch: preliminary results of the feasibility
multicenter trial of the Gore thoracic branch endoprosthesis. Ann Thorac Surg 2016;102:1190-8.
157. Roselli EE, Arko FR 3rd, Thompson MM. Results of the
Valiant Mona LSA early feasibility study for descending
thoracic aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:1465-71.e3.
158. Drews JD, Patel HJ, Williams DM, Dasika NL, Deeb GM. The
impact of acute renal failure on early and late outcomes
after thoracic aortic endovascular repair. Ann Thorac Surg
2014;97:2027-33.
159. Piffaretti G, Mariscalco G, Bonardelli S, Sarcina A, Gelpi G,
Bellosta R, et al. Predictors and outcomes of acute kidney
injury after thoracic aortic endograft repair. J Vasc Surg
2012;56:1527-34.
160. Silver SA, Shah PM, Chertow GM, Harel S, Wald R, Harel Z.
Risk prediction models for contrast induced nephropathy:
systematic review. BMJ 2015;351:h4395.
161. Wichmann JL, Katzberg RW, Litwin SE, Zwerner PL, De
Cecco CN, Vogl TJ, et al. Contrast-induced nephropathy.
Circulation 2015;132:1931-6.
162. Eng J, Wilson RF, Subramaniam RM, Zhang A, SuarezCuervo C, Turban S, et al. Comparative effect of contrast
media type on the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Ann
Intern Med 2016;164:417-24.

82S

Upchurch et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2021

163. Wang N, Qian P, Kumar S, Yan TD, Phan K. The effect of Nacetylcysteine on the incidence of contrast-induced kidney
injury: a systematic review and trial sequential analysis. Int J
Cardiol 2016;209:319-27.
164. Eng J, Subramaniam RM, Wilson R, Turban S, Choi MJ,
Zhang A, et al. Contrast-induced nephropathy: comparative
effects of different contrast media. Comparative Effectiveness Review No. 155. Rockville, Md: Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality (US); 2016.
165. Leon LR Jr, Mills JL Sr, Jordan W, Morasch MM, Kovacs M,
Becker GJ, et al. The risks of celiac artery coverage during
endoluminal repair of thoracic and thoracoabdominal
aortic aneurysms. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2009;43:51-60.
166. Levin DC, Baltaxe HA. High incidence of celiac axis narrowing in asymptomatic individuals. Am J Roentgenol
Radium Ther Nucl Med 1972;116:426-9.
167. Bron KM, Redman HC. Splanchnic artery stenosis and occlusion. Incidence; arteriographic and clinical manifestations. Radiology 1969;92:323-8.
168. Park CM, Chung JW, Kim HB, Shin SJ, Park JH. Celiac axis
stenosis: incidence and etiologies in asymptomatic individuals. Korean J Radiol 2001;2:8-13.
169. Song SY, Chung JW, Kwon JW, Joh JH, Shin SJ, Kim HB,
et al. Collateral pathways in patients with celiac axis stenosis: angiographic-spiral CT correlation. Radiographics
2002;22:881-93.
170. Gawenda M, Libicher M. Imaging to estimate the safety of
intentional celiac trunk coverage in TEVAR: multislice CTA
cannot replace angiography at present. J Endovasc Ther
2009;16:55-8; discussion: 58-9.
171. Hyhlik-Durr A, Geisbusch P, von Tengg-Kobligk H, Klemm K,
Bockler D. Intentional overstenting of the celiac trunk
during thoracic endovascular aortic repair: preoperative
role of multislice CT angiography. J Endovasc Ther 2009;16:
48-54.
172. Libicher M, Reichert V, Aleksic M, Brunkwall J, Lackner KJ,
Gawenda M. Balloon occlusion of the celiac artery: a test for
evaluation of collateral circulation prior endovascular
coverage. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2008;36:303-5.
173. Mehta M, Darling RC 3rd, Taggert JB, Roddy SP,
Sternbach Y, Ozsvath KJ, et al. Outcomes of planned celiac
artery coverage during TEVAR. J Vasc Surg 2010;52:1153-8.
174. Rose MK, Pearce BJ, Matthews TC, Patterson MA,
Passman MA, Jordan WD. Outcomes after celiac artery
coverage during thoracic endovascular aortic aneurysm
repair. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:36-42.
175. Vaddineni SK, Taylor SM, Patterson MA, Jordan WD Jr.
Outcome after celiac artery coverage during endovascular
thoracic aortic aneurysm repair: preliminary results. J Vasc
Surg 2007;45:467-71.
176. Ayad M, Senders ZJ, Ryan S, Abai B, DiMuzio P,
Salvatore DM. Chronic mesenteric ischemia after partial
coverage of the celiac artery during TEVAR, case report, and
review of the literature. Ann Vasc Surg 2014;28:1935.e1-6.
177. Illig KA, Ohki T, Hughes GC, Kato M, Shimizu H, Patel HJ,
et al. One-year outcomes from the international multicenter study of the Zenith Alpha Thoracic Endovascular
Graft for thoracic endovascular repair. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:
1485-94.
178. Moore WS, Rutherford RB. Transfemoral endovascular
repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm: results of the North
American EVT phase 1 trial. EVT Investigators. J Vasc Surg
1996;23:543-53.
179. Caiati JM, Kaplan D, Gitlitz D, Hollier LH, Marin ML. The value
of the oblique groin incision for femoral artery access during endovascular procedures. Ann Vasc Surg 2000;14:
248-53.

180. Chuter TA, Reilly LM, Stoney RJ, Messina LM. Femoral artery
exposure for endovascular aneurysm repair through oblique incisions. J Endovasc Surg 1998;5:259-60.
181. Nelson PR, Kracjer Z, Kansal N, Rao V, Bianchi C, Hashemi H,
et al. A multicenter, randomized, controlled trial of totally
percutaneous access versus open femoral exposure for
endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (the PEVAR trial).
J Vasc Surg 2014;59:1181-93.
182. de Souza LR, Oderich GS, Banga PV, Hofer JM, Wigham JR,
Cha S, et al. Outcomes of total percutaneous endovascular
aortic repair for thoracic, fenestrated, and branched
endografts. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:1442-9.
183. Lee WA, Brown MP, Nelson PR, Huber TS. Total percutaneous access for endovascular aortic aneurysm repair
(”Preclose” technique). J Vasc Surg 2007;45:1095-101.
184. Bensley RP, Hurks R, Huang Z, Pomposelli F, Hamdan A,
Wyers M, et al. Ultrasound-guided percutaneous endovascular aneurysm repair success is predicted by access vessel
diameter. J Vasc Surg 2012;55:1554-61.
185. Skagius E, Bosnjak M, Bjorck M, Steuer J, Nyman R,
Wanhainen A. Percutaneous closure of large femoral artery
access with Prostar XL in thoracic endovascular aortic
repair. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;46:558-63.
186. Sarmiento JM, Wisniewski PJ, Do NT, Slezak JM,
Tayyarah M, Aka PK, et al. The Kaiser Permanente
experience with ultrasound-guided percutaneous endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. Ann Vasc
Surg 2012;26:906-12.
187. Jaffan AA, Prince EA, Hampson CO, Murphy TP. The preclose technique in percutaneous endovascular aortic
repair: a systematic literature review and meta-analysis.
Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2013;36:567-77.
188. Zakko J, Scali S, Beck AW, Klodell CT Jr, Beaver TM,
Martin TD, et al. Percutaneous thoracic endovascular aortic
repair is not contraindicated in obese patients. J Vasc Surg
2014;60:921-8.
189. Greenberg RK, O’Neill S, Walker E, Haddad F, Lyden SP,
Svensson LG, et al. Endovascular repair of thoracic aortic
lesions with the Zenith TX1 and TX2 thoracic grafts:
intermediate-term results. J Vasc Surg 2005;41:589-96.
190. Tsilimparis N, Dayama A, Perez S, Ricotta JJ 2nd. Iliac conduits for endovascular repair of aortic pathologies. Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;45:443.
191. Criado FJ. Iliac arterial conduits for endovascular access:
technical considerations. J Endovasc Surg 2007;14:347-51.
192. Parmer SS, Carpenter JP. Techniques for large sheath
insertion during endovascular thoracic aortic aneurysm
repair. J Vasc Surg 2006;43(Suppl A):62A-8A.
193. Peterson BG, Matsumura JS. Internal endoconduit: an
innovative technique to address unfavorable iliac artery
anatomy encountered during thoracic endovascular aortic
repair. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:441-5.
194. van Bogerijen GH, Williams DM, Eliason JL, Dasika NL,
Deeb GM, Patel HJ. Alternative access techniques with
thoracic endovascular aortic repair, open iliac conduit
versus endoconduit technique. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:1168-76.
195. Oderich GS, Picada-Correa M, Pereira AA. Open surgical
and endovascular conduits for difﬁcult access during
endovascular aortic aneurysm repair. Ann Vasc Surg
2012;26:1022-9.
196. Wu T, Carson JG, Skelly CL. Use of internal endoconduits as
an adjunct to endovascular aneurysm repair in the setting
of challenging aortoiliac anatomy. Ann Vasc Surg 2010;24:
114.e7-11.
197. Yano OJ, Faries PL, Morrissey N, Teodorescu V, Hollier LH,
Marin ML. Ancillary techniques to facilitate endovascular
repair of aortic aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2001;34:69-75.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Upchurch et al

83S

Volume 73, Number 1S
198. Asano S, Hayashida N, Shibata Y, Koizumi S, Ito T, Ikeuchi H,
et al. A case of thoracic endovascular aortic repair using
carotid access with axillary-carotid bypass for descending
aortic aneurysm in a patient with aortoiliac occlusive disease. Ann Vasc Dis 2019;12:105-8.
199. Johansson G, Markstrom U, Swedenborg J. Ruptured
thoracic aortic aneurysms: a study of incidence and mortality rates. J Vasc Surg 1995;21:985-8.
200. Cambria RP, Crawford RS, Cho JS, Bavaria J, Farber M,
Lee WA, et al. A multicenter clinical trial of endovascular
stent graft repair of acute catastrophes of the descending
thoracic aorta. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:1255-64.e1-4.
201. Schermerhorn ML, Giles KA, Hamdan AD, Dalhberg SE,
Hagberg R, Pomposelli F. Population-based outcomes of
open descending thoracic aortic aneurysm repair. J Vasc
Surg 2008;48:821-7.
202. Conrad MF, Ergul EA, Patel VI, Paruchuri V, Kwolek CJ,
Cambria RP. Management of diseases of the descending
thoracic aorta in the endovascular era: a Medicare population study. Ann Surg 2010;252:603-10.
203. Jonker FH, Trimarchi S, Verhagen HJ, Moll FL, Sumpio BE,
Muhs BE. Meta-analysis of open versus endovascular repair
for ruptured descending thoracic aortic aneurysm. J Vasc
Surg 2010;51:1026-32.
204. Jonker FH, Verhagen HJ, Lin PH, Heijmen RH, Trimarchi S,
Lee WA, et al. Open surgery versus endovascular repair of
ruptured thoracic aortic aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:
1210-6.
205. Botsios S, Fromke J, Walterbusch G, Schuermann K,
Reinstadler J, Dohmen G. Endovascular treatment for
nontraumatic rupture of the descending thoracic aorta:
long-term results. J Card Surg 2014;29:353-8.
206. Ziza V, Canaud L, Molinari N, Branchereau P, Marty-Ane C,
Alric P. Thoracic endovascular aortic repair: a single center’s
15-year experience. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2016;151:
1595-603.e7.
207. Khashram M, He Q, Oh TH, Khanafer A, Wright IA,
Vasudevan TM, et al. Late radiological and clinical outcomes
of traumatic thoracic aortic injury managed with thoracic
endovascular aortic repair. World J Surg 2016;40:1763-70.
208. Canaud L, Marty-Ane C, Ziza V, Branchereau P, Alric P.
Minimum 10-year follow-up of endovascular repair for
acute traumatic transection of the thoracic aorta. J Thorac
Cardiovasc Surg 2015;149:825-9.
209. Meena RA, Benarroch-Gampel J, Leshnower BG,
Escobar GA, Duwayri Y, Jordan WD Jr, et al. Surveillance
recommendations following TEVAR should be based on
initial indication for repair. Ann Vasc Surg 2019;57:51-9.
210. Janosi RA, Gorla R, Tsagakis K, Kahlert P, Horacek M,
Bruckschen F, et al. Thoracic endovascular repair of

complicated penetrating aortic ulcer: an 11-year singlecenter experience. J Endovasc Ther 2016;23:150-9.
211. von Allmen RS, Anjum A, Powell JT. Outcomes after
endovascular or open repair for degenerative descending
thoracic aortic aneurysm using linked hospital data. Br J
Surg 2014;101:1244-51.
212. Oliveira N, Bastos Goncalves F, Ten Raa S, Rouwet E,
Hendriks JM, Cassio I, et al. Do we need long-term followup after EVAR and TEVAR or can we simplify surveillance
protocols? J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2014;55(Suppl 1):151-8.
213. Spiliotopoulos K, Kokotsakis J, Argiriou M, Dedeilias P,
Farsaris D, Diamantis T, et al. Endovascular repair for blunt
thoracic aortic injury: 11-year outcomes and postoperative
surveillance experience. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2014;148:
2956-61.
214. Canaud L, Alric P, Gandet T, Albat B, Marty-Ane C,
Berthet JP. Surgical conversion after thoracic endovascular
aortic repair. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2011;142:1027-31.
215. Melissano G, Tshomba Y, Mascia D, Baccellieri D,
Kahlberg A, Bertoglio L, et al. Late open conversion after
TEVAR. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2016;57:491-7.
216. Calligaro KD, Toursarkissian B, Clagett GP, Towne J,
Hodgson K, Moneta G, et al; Clinical Practice Council, Society for Vascular Surgery. Guidelines for hospital privileges
in vascular and endovascular surgery: recommendations of
the Society for Vascular Surgery. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:1-5.
217. Hodgson KJ, Matsumura JS, Ascher E, Dake MD, Sacks D,
Krol K, et al. Clinical competence statement on thoracic
endovascular
aortic
repair
(TEVAR)dmultispecialty
consensus recommendations. A report of the SVS/SIR/SCAI/
SVMB Writing Committee to Develop a Clinical Competence
Standard for TEVAR. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:858-62.
218. Goodney PP, Brooke BS, Wallaert J, Travis L, Lucas FL,
Goodman DC, et al. Thoracic endovascular aneurysm repair,
race, and volume in thoracic aneurysm repair. J Vasc Surg
2013;57:56-63.
219. Patel VI, Mukhopadhyay S, Ergul E, Aranson N, Conrad MF,
Lamuraglia GM, et al. Impact of hospital volume and type
on outcomes of open and endovascular repair of
descending thoracic aneurysms in the United States
Medicare population. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:346-54.
220. Schaffer JM, Lingala B, Miller DC, Woo YJ, Mitchell RS,
Dake MD. Midterm survival after thoracic endovascular
aortic repair in more than 10,000 Medicare patients.
J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2015;149:808-20; discussion:
820-3.

Submitted May 27, 2020; accepted May 29, 2020.

