SOCIETY FOR VASCULAR SURGERY DOCUMENT
The Society for Vascular Surgery implementation document for
management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease
Ali F. AbuRahma, MD,a Efthymios D. Avgerinos, MD, PhD,b Robert W. Chang, MD,c
R. Clement Darling III, MD,d Audra A. Duncan, MD,e Thomas L. Forbes, MD,f Mahmoud B. Malas, MD, MHS,g
Bruce Alan Perler, MD, MBA,h Richard J. Powell, MD,i Caron B. Rockman, MD,j and Wei Zhou, MD,k Charleston,
WV; Pittsburgh, Pa; San Francisco and La Jolla, Calif; Albany and New York, NY; London and Toronto, Ontario, Canada;
Baltimore, Md; Lebanon, NH; and Tucson, Ariz


INTRODUCTION
The management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease, including carotid endarterectomy (CEA), carotid
stenting and medical management is performed by
several specialists. Vascular surgeons perform a majority
of CEA, whereas catheter-based therapies (eg, carotid artery stenting [CAS]) are performed by vascular surgeons,
cardiologists, interventional radiologists, neurosurgeons,
interventional neurologists, and other professionals.1,2
Because multiple treatment modalities are available for
extracranial cerebrovascular disease, deﬁning optimal
therapy can be challenging particularly when different
specialtiesdoften with nonoverlapping expertised
deliver these therapeutic options.
In 2011, the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) published clinical practice guidelines for the management
of extracranial carotid artery disease in the Journal of
Vascular Surgery.3 A multispecialty document was also
published on the “Management of Patients with Extracranial Carotid and Vertebral Artery Disease.”4 However,
since these documents came out, four large, randomized trials have been published that compared the efﬁcacy of CAS and CEA in management of extracranial
carotid stenosis.5-9 This led the European Society for
Vascular Surgery to update its guidelines, “Management
of Atherosclerotic Carotid and Vertebral Artery Disease”
in 2017.10 Similarly, the SVS felt an update of its 2011
document was needed.
Accordingly, the SVS selected a writing group consisting of leaders in vascular surgery with a major interest
in this ﬁeld. The group met in person and on several conference calls to identify the most important and/or
controversial issues and questions it felt were of major interest to practicing clinicians and other specialists, and
these issues are addressed in the revised Clinical Practice
Guidelines. To support the guideline, a systematic review
and meta-analysis was conducted by the Mayo Clinic Evidence Practice Center to address these issues, and these
will be published separately in the Journal of Vascular
Surgery. The following ﬁve issues/questions are
addressed:
1. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy
for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in low surgical risk
patients?
2. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral CAS in low
surgical risk patients for symptomatic carotid artery
stenosis of greater than 50%?
3. What is the optimal timing of carotid intervention in
patients presenting with acute stroke?
4. Screening for carotid artery stenosis in asymptomatic
patients
A. Is screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis recommended in the general population?
B. Is screening for carotid stenosis recommended for
high-risk asymptomatic patients?
C. What imaging test is best for screening for carotid
stenosis in asymptomatic patients?
5. What is the optimal sequence for intervention in patients with combined carotid and coronary artery
disease?
These questions are addressed in a separate Clinical
Practice Guidelines document.
However, there are several additional topics in the management of extracranial cerebrovascular disease which
the writing group felt needed to be updated. This
Comprehensive Implementation Document was prepared to address those topics.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

29S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Each member of the writing group was assigned responsibility for compiling information on a speciﬁc topic
and ﬁndings were distributed to all members for review.
Each topic area was discussed and summary recommendations reﬂecting the unanimous opinion of the
writing group was reached by consensus.
Prevalence and incidence of stroke. The prevalence of
stroke prevalence in US adults (>18 years old) is currently
2.7%, a ﬁgure that is expected to increase to 3.9% by
2030 as the population ages. The American Heart Association (AHA) reports, “Every 40 seconds someone has a
stroke and every 3 minutes and 45 seconds someone in
the United States dies of a stroke.”11 With approximately
795,000 cases annually, stroke ranks ﬁfth among all causes of death in the United States and second globally.11,12
The estimated prevalence of self-reported physiciandiagnosed transient ischemic attack (TIA) is 2.3% and
also increases with advancing age. However, challenges
with accurate diagnosis suggest that true prevalence is
likely greater.13
Deﬁnition of TIA and stroke. The original 1950s deﬁnition of TIA was time-based, relying on an arbitrary
symptom duration of less than 24 hours.14 At that time,
TIA were deﬁned as sudden, focal neurologic deﬁcits of
vascular origin, but if the neurologic deﬁcit remained for
more than 7 days then it was a stroke. Events between
24 hours and 7 days were classiﬁed as reversible ischemic
neurologic deﬁcits. This term is no longer used because
most events lasting more than 24 hours are associated
with cerebral infarction and should therefore carry a
stroke diagnosis.
Advances in cerebral imaging yielded evidence that the
arbitrary 24-hour time period for diagnosing a TIA was
inaccurate, with up to 50% of patients showing brain
injury on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The Stroke Council of the AHA/American Stroke
Association removed time as a deﬁnitional factor and
endorsed the current TIA deﬁnition in 2009: “A transient
episode of neurologic dysfunction caused by focal cerebral, spinal cord or retinal ischemia, without acute infarction.” This deﬁnition includes radiologic exclusion of
stroke.15 Stroke is subsequently deﬁned as any episode
of neurologic dysfunction caused by focal cerebral, spinal,
or retinal infarction. Moving toward this radiologic
demonstration of infarction or hemorrhage, the 2013
AHA/American Stroke Association deﬁnition of stroke
included the silent infarctions. It deﬁned them based on
imaging or neuropathological evidence of central nervous
system infarction, without a history of acute neurologic
dysfunction attributable to the lesion.16 This “tissue-based”
deﬁnition represents a step forward in the characterization of cerebrovascular events. However, in everyday

practice and across different hospital settings, tissuebased diagnosis of a TIA episode may vary depending on
the availability and type of brain MRI machines.
The US tissue-based imaging deﬁnition of TIA and the
silent pathology equivalence to stroke as described elsewhere in this article are at odds with time-based clinical
deﬁnitions endorsed by the World Health Organization,
European Stroke Organization, European Society for
Vascular Surgery, and the World Stroke Organisation.10,17-19 The implications of not arriving at a universal
deﬁnition of TIA and stroke are far-reaching. They may
include differences in reporting of incidence and prevalence rates and differences in reporting of neurologic
events after interventions, as well as changes in life insurance premiums.17 However, a recent population study
demonstrated that the broad tissue-based TIA deﬁnition
was associated with only a slight change in incidence
compared with the traditional time-based deﬁnition.20
Regardless, in the future it will be important for international organizations to reach a consensus to standardize
data reporting and research end points. In this guidelines, reported rates of TIA and stroke are based primarily
on studies that used the earlier, time-based deﬁnitions.
Etiology. Approximately 87% of all strokes are due to
ischemic cerebral infarction and 13% are hemorrhagic
(intracerebral or subarachnoid).21 The currently recognized ischemic stroke mechanisms are embolism,
decreased perfusion, and thrombosis.
Embolism may be cardiac or arterial in origin.
Commonly recognized cardiac sources for embolism
include atrial ﬁbrillation, recent acute myocardial
infarction (MI), endocarditis, cardiac tumors, and
valvular disorders. Arterial embolism is a common
cause of cerebral infarction associated with plaques of
the large extracranial (including the aortic arch) and
intracranial arteries. Stroke owing to perfusion failure
occurs with severe stenosis of the carotid and basilar artery, and when there is microstenosis of the small deep
arteries, the latter being a common cause of lacunar
infarction. In situ thrombosis may also occur owing to
a severely stenotic lesion, plaque rupture, or less
frequently to a prothrombotic state.
Atherosclerotic lesions are not randomly distributed
along the cerebral arterial tree. The carotid artery system
is mostly affected at the common carotid artery (CCA)
bifurcation, the siphon, and the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Along the vertebrobasilar circulation, the ﬁrst and fourth segments of the vertebral
artery and the ﬁrst segment of the basilar artery are
frequently affected. Factors that lead these lesions to
become symptomatic are not well-understood, but stenoses are linearly associated with increased risk of distal
brain infarct. Extra-cranial carotid artery disease

30S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

(ipsilateral stenosis of $50%) has been linked to 9% to
36% of ischemic strokes.22,23 Yet, carotid artery plaques
that cause less severe stenosis have a potentially causative association with embolism of undetermined source
(cryptogenic).24

CAROTID IMAGING INDICATIONS
Most experts believe that at least 20% of ischemic
strokes are likely related to extracranial carotid artery
atherosclerosis.3,25 It is for this reason that the goal of
carotid bifurcation imaging is to detect “high-risk” patients with signiﬁcant carotid bifurcation plaque who
would be likely to beneﬁt from therapy to reduce their
stroke risk.3
Many factors drive stroke risk, but among patients with
atherosclerosis of the carotid bifurcation, the most
important seem to be a history of prior neurologic symptoms, severity or degree of stenosis, and, to a lesser
extent, plaque characteristics such as ulceration, intraplaque hemorrhage, and composition.3
Symptomatic patients
It is important to image the carotid bifurcation in all
patients with symptoms of cerebral ischemia, whether
they present in as a TIA or completed stroke.3
Assuming signiﬁcant carotid artery disease is the cause
of symptoms, these patients are likely candidates for
carotid artery intervention to prevent an initial or secondary stroke.26
Typical carotid territory focal ischemic symptoms
include contralateral weakness of the face, upper extremity, lower extremity, or both; contralateral sensory
deﬁcit or paresthesia of the face, upper or lower extremity, or both; or transient ipsilateral blindness (amaurosis
fugax).3 Notably, more than 90% of people are right
handed, and language-related functions are controlled
by the left cerebral hemisphere in most of these individuals.27 In most right-handed individuals, if the right cerebral hemisphere is involved, other ischemic
manifestations may be observed. These include anosognosia, asomatognosia, neglect, visual, and sensory
extinction. To be noted that, even in left-handed individuals, speech is most often controlled by the left hemisphere. If the left hemisphere is involved, patients may
demonstrate aphasia, alexia, anomia, and agraphesthesia. Nonspeciﬁc neurologic symptoms that are not typically associated with carotid territory thromboembolic
events include vertigo, ataxia, diplopia, other visual disturbances, dysarthria, decreased consciousness, weakness, syncope, and dizziness.3 Although imaging is
most often performed with a carotid duplex ultrasound
examination, among patients presenting with stroke,
the extracranial and intracranial vasculature may be
imaged simultaneously with computed tomography
(CT) or MRI studies.

Asymptomatic patients
Indications for imaging the carotid bifurcation in select
groups of neurologically asymptomatic patients are
controversial.3 Although statistically signiﬁcant in large
trials including the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS),28 the beneﬁt of CEA and other carotid
stenting interventions in preventing stroke in asymptomatic patients is much lower than among neurologically
symptomatic individuals. Moreover, the magnitude of
beneﬁt depends on the assumption that interventions
are performed with minimal morbidity. Populationlevel screening for asymptomatic carotid artery disease
is not currently recommended by the US Preventive Services Task Force.29 The identiﬁcation of asymptomatic
patients with “screening” should therefore be limited to
high-risk individuals (see Clinical Practice Guidelines
document), or those with relevant ﬁndings on physical
examination or other imaging studies (ie, an audible carotid bruit, Hollenhorst plaque on fundoscopic examination, silent infarction on brain imaging examinations).
Among these patients, the most appropriate screening
test is a carotid duplex ultrasound examination.
The presence of an audible bruit in the neck may be an
appropriate indication for carotid imaging in selected
neurologically asymptomatic patients. Among patients
with a neck bruit, the prevalence of carotid stenosis of
more than 75% is 1.2%.30 However, the presence of a
neck bruit did not predict carotid stenosis of more than
60% in an asymptomatic patient population.30 These observations contrast to those in symptomatic patients, in
whom an ipsilateral bruit had a sensitivity of 63% and
speciﬁcity of 61% for high-grade carotid stenosis (70%99%).31 The presence of a bruit clearly increases the risk
of MI and cardiovascular death.32 However, in
population-based studies, the prevalence of severe stenosis is not high enough to make a bruit alone an indication
for screening. Thus, screening for a bruit alone should not
be done unless patients have other stenosis risk factors.3
It is reasonable to image the carotid bifurcation in patients with evidence of cerebral infarction on brain imaging, even without a relevant clinical history of stroke.
Although these patients may not be “symptomatic” as
deﬁned in the NASCET trial (hemispheric TIA, monocular
blindness or a nondisabling stroke within the previous
120 days),33 prior silent cerebral infarction in the carotid territory noted on brain imaging studies may be considered a
correlate of carotid territory neurologic symptoms.34 Additionally, the ﬁnding of Hollenhorst plaque on fundoscopic
examination of the retina is also correlated with presence
of signiﬁcant carotid bifurcation disease, and may therefore
also warrant carotid artery evaluation.3,35,36 Additional information regarding possible high-risk populations of neurologically asymptomatic patients who may be appropriate
for screening is discussed elsewhere in this section.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

31S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Imaging modalities
The most important features of imaging of carotid
bifurcation disease are the degree of stenosis and the
character of the plaque.3,26,28,37,38 It is common for clinicians to use multiple modalities when evaluating and
planning intervention for patients with carotid artery stenosis. A greater degree of stenosis is generally thought to
reﬂect an increased risk of future stroke.26,37 However,
plaque morphology also plays a signiﬁcant role.38 The
morphologic features of the plaque include heterogeneity, measurement of plaque area and juxtaluminal black
area, gray-scale median, and echogenicity.
Duplex ultrasound examination. Duplex ultrasound
examination is safe, accurate, and reliable. Because results are heavily dependent on technique, it should be
performed in an accredited ultrasound laboratory
(consensus of writing group).3 Duplex ultrasound examination is the ﬁrst-line imaging modality for carotid artery
imaging, screening, and identiﬁcation of patients with
70% to 99% stenosis of the internal carotid artery
(ICA).39,40 The rationale for widespread use of duplex ultrasound examination include its low cost, ease of performance, and robust sensitivity (0.89; 95% conﬁdence
interval [CI], 0.85-0.92) and speciﬁcity (0.84; 95% CI, 0.770.89).39,41 Consensus ultrasound criteria for diagnosing
varying degrees of carotid artery stenosis have been
extensively developed, widely used and validated.42 Yet,
duplex criteria that are used to categorize degree of
stenosis can vary widely across centers, thereby impacting treatment decisions.43,44 Duplex ultrasound examination may have a lower sensitivity and speciﬁcity for
diagnosis of more moderate degrees of stenosis (50%69%).40 Duplex ultrasound examination also has the
ability to evaluate features of plaque morphology that
may indicate patients at a high risk of stroke.38
Many surgeons use carotid duplex ultrasound examination as the primary and sole mode of imaging before
planning and performing CEA.45 These patients should
have no evidence of arch disease on clinical examination
(equal arm blood pressure), no abnormal waveform suggesting inﬂow as noticed by low peak systolic velocities
or outﬂow disease as noted by low/absent diastolic ﬂow
and absence of extensive tortuosity, which may falsely
elevate peak systolic velocities. This practice is in contrast
with planning for carotid stenting procedures (CAS), for
which additional imaging of the aortic arch and great
vessels is typically considered mandatory.
The determination of the degree of carotid stenosis is
based on analysis of hemodynamic parameters obtained
from Doppler analysis, including peak systolic and end
diastolic velocities. Ultrasound criteria describing the degree of carotid stenosis should be deﬁned on angiographic/imaging correlation in each vascular laboratory.
The most common consensus criteria include a cutoff
peak systolic velocity of the ICA of 125 cm/second or
greater to denote an angiographic stenosis of greater

than 50%. A combination of peak systolic velocity of
230 cm/second and an end-diastolic velocity of greater
than100 cm/second, or a peak systolic velocity ratio between the internal and CCA of greater than 4 can be
used to predict a stenosis of greater than 70%.42,46 Using
these criteria, the reported sensitivity, speciﬁcity and accuracy of duplex in predicting 50% to 69% or a more
than 70% stenosis are 93%, 68%, and 85% and 99%,
86%, and 95%, respectively.42 Many surgeons have raised
their threshold for intervention for asymptomatic carotid
stenosis to 80% or greater. Typical duplex criteria to identify stenosis at this level include an end diastolic velocity
of more than 140 cm/second.47
The major limitations of duplex ultrasound examination include dependence on a skilled operator and the
inability to completely image the proximal and intracranial vasculature. Certain anatomic features such as severe vascular calciﬁcation and arterial tortuosity can
also decrease the accuracy of duplex imaging.3
MR angiography. Current contrast-enhanced MR angiography (MRA) can provide three-dimensional images,
which can rival those of formal arteriography.40 The main
advantages of MRA include the absence of radiation and
the avoidance of iodinated-based contrast materials.
Additionally, MRA can be combined with MR brain imaging to delineate clinically silent cerebral infarction, and
it can also evaluate plaque morphology, particularly the
presence of intraplaque hemorrhage.48 However, bony
landmarks are not typically present on the resulting images, and calciﬁcation of the vessels or plaque is not wellidentiﬁed.40 Nevertheless, MRA has become widely used
in evaluating patients with carotid artery disease. It can be
used in combination with an initial duplex ultrasound
scan for the planning of carotid artery intervention.
Contrast-enhanced MRA using gadolinium has been
shown to be the most accurate noninvasive imaging modality for evaluation of carotid stenosis.39 However, MRA
has no role in screening for carotid artery disease owing
to its considerable expense. Contraindications include
the presence of metallic implants, including some pacemakers and deﬁbrillators. In patients with signiﬁcant renal
failure, there is a rare but serious risk of nephrogenic systemic ﬁbrosis following gadolinium contrast administration.49 MRA using the time of ﬂight technique has been
reported to overestimate the degree of stenosis.3
CT angiography. Multidimensional CT angiography
(CTA) can rapidly and accurately evaluate soft tissue,
bone and vascular structures simultaneously. It is also
able to evaluate the extent of vessel calciﬁcation, particularly in the aortic arch, and is less likely to overestimate the
severity of carotid stenosis as compared with MRA.3,40
Radiation and use of contrast remain its most signiﬁcant
limitations. CTA is not appropriate for widespread
screening owing to its signiﬁcant cost and degree of radiation exposure.40 With regard to CEA planning, CTA is
often used during preoperative evaluation in combination

32S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

with an initial duplex ultrasound examination. In particular, if there is hemodynamic evidence of either proximal
cerebrovascular disease or intracranial outﬂow disease on
duplex ultrasound examination, CTA can be used to
accurately image the aortic arch, great vessels, and intracranial circulation. However, MRA is likely better than CTA
in the evaluation of plaque morphology.50 Duplex criteria
have also been validated using CTA as opposed to formal
catheter-based arteriography to measure the degree of
carotid artery stenosis.47
Conventional catheter arteriography. Catheter arteriography was previously considered the gold standard
for the evaluation of carotid artery stenosis, particularly
before CEA,40 and it was used to measure the degree
of carotid stenosis in most of the seminal studies
comparing CEA with medical therapy.26,28 However, it
carries a small risk of complications. In the ACAS trial,
angiographic-related stroke accounted for 50% of the
procedural risk after CEA.28,40 With current techniques,
the risk of complications is likely much lower.
Currently, there is a limited role for routine use of arteriography in diagnostic evaluation of patients with carotid
artery disease or in the planning of routine CEA. Although
considered the gold standard for the evaluation of carotid
artery stenosis, the current role of carotid angiography is to
help to clarify conﬂicting results obtained from other imaging modalities, particularly with regard to the presence
of carotid artery occlusion or “string sign.”
Clearly, carotid arteriography is an integral part of all carotid stenting procedures. Arteriography is also performed
as a completion study following CEA by some practitioners,
and it may be useful in evaluation and management of patients with post carotid intervention stroke to evaluate and
potentially treat the intracranial circulation. Contraindications include anaphylaxis to contrast materials.
Indications for carotid screening: High-risk groups
This is covered in the Clinical Practice Guidelines
document.3
Methods of measuring carotid stenosis
The degree of stenosis is still considered to be the
most critical parameter in determining who will beneﬁt
from carotid artery intervention for stroke prevention.
Accurately deﬁning the degree of stenosis is essential
to proper patient selection and management. As noted
earlier, duplex ultrasound examination is the most
widely used technique for evaluation of ICA stenosis.
Velocities and other hemodynamic parameters obtained from the duplex ultrasound examination are
used to infer degree of stenosis based upon validated
data in comparison to formal arteriography. In most
of the seminal trials comparing CEA with medical therapy, degree of stenosis was actually measured using
arteriography.26,28 There are several different methods
for doing so.

The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) method, also used in the ACAS trial,
measures the residual lumen at the point of greatest ICA
stenosis with the lumen of the normal distal cervical
ICA.51 Percent stenosis is calculated as: (1 e minimal residual lumen/normal distal cervical ICA diameter)  100.
However, an alternative method was used in the European Surgical Carotid Trial (ECST).37 The ECST technique
indexed minimal residual lumen to the diameter of the
carotid bulb (as opposed to the normal distal cervical
ICA). Both methods may have inherent inaccuracies.51
The ECST technique must use arteriographic images to
estimate the actual location of the carotid bulb wall
and the NASCET technique may calculate a negative
value for stenosis when minimal occlusive disease is present at the carotid bifurcation. Currently, the NASCET
method is more widely used and accepted.52 CTA has
been shown to be a reliable substitute to formal arteriography in this regard.53
Summary and recommendations
(See also Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3)
1. Duplex ultrasound examination preferably performed
in an accredited vascular laboratory is the initial diagnostic imaging of choice for evaluating the severity of
carotid stenosis in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Unequivocal identiﬁcation by duplex ultrasound examination of carotid stenosis 50% to 99%
in neurologically symptomatic patients or 70% to
99% in asymptomatic patients is sufﬁcient to make
a decision regarding carotid a artery intervention in
appropriately selected patients.
2. When duplex ultrasound results are equivocal or may
be inaccurate owing to the presence of signiﬁcant
calciﬁcation or other ﬁndings, additional imaging
with MRA, CTA, or digital subtraction arteriography
may be considered before consideration of carotid artery revascularization procedure.
3. When evaluation of the vessels proximal or distal to
the cervical carotid artery is required for diagnosis or
to plan endovascular or surgical therapy, additional
imaging with CTA, MRA, or digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is indicated. CTA is preferred to MRA for
extreme calciﬁcation. When there is a discordance
between two minimally invasive imaging techniques,
DSA may be indicated to resolve conﬂicting results.
DSA is generally reserved for situations where there
is inconclusive evidence on minimally invasive studies,
or when CAS procedures are planned.
4. Imaging of the carotid bifurcation is recommended in
all patients with symptoms of cerebral ischemia. This
is based on the increased incidence of clinically relevant carotid stenosis and future stroke in this patient
group, and the efﬁcacy of carotid intervention in
reducing the risk of future stroke.
5. Imaging of the carotid bifurcation should be strongly
considered in patients who present with amaurosis
fugax, evidence of retinal artery embolization on

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

33S

Volume 75, Number 1S

fundoscopic examination, or asymptomatic cerebral
infarction noted on imaging studies. This is based on
the intermediate stroke risk in this patient population,
and the efﬁcacy of carotid intervention in reducing
future stroke risk (see Clinical Practice Guidelines
document).

OPTIMAL MEDICAL THERAPY AND RISK FACTOR
MODIFICATION
Treatment of hypertension
Hypertension is a well-recognized risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, including carotid artery
disease and stroke. The association between blood pressure and stroke is independent of other risk factors for
stroke, and blood pressure reduction decreases this
risk.54,55 Each 10 mm Hg increase in blood pressure is associated with a 30% to 45% increased risk of stroke and each
10 mm Hg blood pressure reduction in hypertensive patients decreased the risk of stroke by 33%.56 There is no
Level 1 evidence from randomized clinical trials assessing
the inﬂuence of blood pressure reduction on stroke prevention among patients with asymptomatic carotid stenoses.
However, a meta-analysis of 25 randomized clinical trials
including patients without documented vascular disease
demonstrated signiﬁcant decreases in the incidence of
late strokes (relative risk reduction 45%; 95% CI, 35-55),
and stroke reduction was proportional to the reduction in
systolic blood pressure.57 In addition, a meta-analysis of
147 randomized clinical trials of hypertensive therapy
among patients with a history of stroke demonstrated a
signiﬁcant relative risk reduction in stroke incidence with
antihypertensive therapy (34%; 95% CI, 15-32).57
However, there is no convincing evidence supporting
systemic blood pressure decreased in the acute phase
of a stroke; in fact, this may be potentially harmful
among patients undergoing CEA. In one report, the
beneﬁt of preoperative blood pressure reduction
increased stroke risk among recently symptomatic patients with bilateral 70% or greater ICA stenosis.58 In
contrast, severe hypertension, deﬁned as a systolic blood
pressure of greater than 180 mm Hg should be treated to
decrease the risk of postoperative hyperperfusion syndrome,
intracranial
hemorrhage,
and
surgical
bleeding.59,60 Similarly, severe hypertension is associated
with risk of hyperperfusion syndrome and intracranial
hemorrhage after CAS procedures.61 Post-CAS hypertension and hypotension are both associated with increased
risk of periprocedural stroke and mortality. In an analysis
of 5263 patients who underwent CAS in the Vascular
Quality Initiative (VQI), beta blocker use for more than
30 days decreased the stroke/death rates after CAS,
although the beneﬁt may not have been related exclusively to blood pressure lowering.62
Similar to the general population, among patients with
asymptomatic carotid disease or a remote symptomatic

history, a blood pressure target of 140/90 mm Hg was
accepted for some time as the standard. However, this
target level was recently lowered to 130/80 in the 2017
guidelines released by the AHA and the American College of Cardiology.63
In addition to its clinical beneﬁt, reduction of elevated
blood pressure also has been demonstrated to have beneﬁts pathologically. Several trials showed that elevated
blood pressure is associated with development of carotid
atherosclerosis,64-66 and other research indicated that
reduction in carotid pulse pressure was associated with
a parallel reduction in intima-media thickness.67 Further,
there is evidence that antihypertensive therapy may slow
progression of carotid atherosclerosis and possibly promote plaque regression.68 However, a more recent
meta-analysis demonstrated that calcium channel
blockers reduce intima-medial thickness to a greater degree than diuretics, beta blockers, and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, suggesting that the origin of
this beneﬁcial effect may be more complex than simple
lowering of blood pressure.69
Treatment of diabetes mellitus
The relationship between blood glucose levels and cerebrovascular disease is complex. The Insulin Resistance
Atherosclerosis Study and the Atherosclerosis Risk in the
Community Study demonstrated associations between
diabetes and carotid artery intima-media thickness as
well as progression in intima-media thickness.70,71 More
recent work indicates that plaque burden and plaque
instability are inﬂuenced by diabetes status.72
Among patients with documented carotid artery disease in the Cardiovascular Health Study, elevated fasting
blood glucose level was associated with increased stroke
risk,73 and in the Northern Manhattan Study, diabetes
was associated with a doubling of the stroke risk.74 However, a recent meta-analysis of nine randomized clinical
trials and nearly 60,000 patients did not conﬁrm that
tight control of glucose levels decreased stroke risk.75
Further, no reduction in stroke risk was identiﬁed despite
achieving a hemoglobin A1c level of less than 6.5% in
either the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study,
the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes
study, or the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease:
Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled Evaluation
trial.76-78 Nevertheless, among patients with carotid artery disease, hemoglobin A1c of less than 7% is recommended to reduce the development of microvascular
complications and possible macrovascular complications other than stroke.
Treatment of lipid abnormalities: Statin therapy
Although the relationship between hypercholesterolemia and coronary artery disease and MI are wellestablished, the data with respect to elevated cholesterol levels and stroke are somewhat conﬂicting.

34S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

Several studies identiﬁed increased incidence of stroke
among men and women with elevated cholesterol
levels,79-81 but a meta-analysis of 45 studies of hypercholesterolemic patents did not indicate an increased
risk of stroke.
Nonetheless, there is compelling evidence that
decreasing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels through
lipid-lowering therapy is highly effective in decreasing
stroke risk among patients with known atherosclerotic
disease. A meta-analysis of 28 randomized clinical trials
including more than 106,000 patients with nearly
50,000 randomized to statin medications, demonstrated
that in hyperlipidemic patients without a prior history of
stroke, statins were associated with a 15% to 30% decrease
in stroke incidence.82 A more recent meta-analysis of 26
trials including more than 90,000 patients with coronary
artery or other atherosclerotic disease demonstrated a
greater than 15% decrease in the rate of stroke for every
10% reduction in serum LDL.83 The 2006 Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels trial
was the ﬁrst study to demonstrate the beneﬁts of statin
therapy in preventing recurrent stroke. Among 4731 patients who had experienced a stroke or TIA within 1 to
6 months of randomization to atorvastatin 80 mg/day or
placebo, there was a 33% decrease in the incidence of fatal
or nonfatal stroke and a 42% decrease in the overall incidence of cardiovascular events.84,85
In the Heart Protection Study, which included 20,536
patients, 3280 had a history of nondisabling ischemic
stroke or TIAs and were randomized to 40 mg of simvastatin or placebo. There was a 25% (95% CI, 15-34) proportional reduction in the ﬁrst event rate for stroke (4.4%
simvastatin vs 5.7% placebo) (P < .0001), indicating a
28% reduction in ischemic strokes (P < .0001).86 A
Cochrane review investigating the role of statins in primary prevention of cardiovascular disease included 18
randomized clinical trials of nearly 57,000 patients and
demonstrated a signiﬁcant reduction in incidence of
fatal and nonfatal strokes among patients randomized
to statin therapy.87
Although LDL levels are associated with stroke risk,
there is also some evidence that high levels of highdensity lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol may be protective,
but to a lesser degree.88 In 9247 patients with a mean
age of 61 who received treatment to reduce LDL and
raise HDL levels, an elevated total cholesterol/HDL ratio
was associated with a 22% increased risk of stroke
whereas an elevation in the HDL level was independently
associated with a 14% reduction in stroke risk.89
The beneﬁt of statin medications for stroke risk reduction
is most likely due to their pleiotropic effects, and these effects are being recognized in the periprocedural period for
patients undergoing CEA and CAS. A study from the
Johns Hopkins Hospital was the ﬁrst to investigate the
impact of statins on CEA outcomes. In a series of nearly

1600 patients with either symptomatic or asymptomatic
carotid stenoses undergoing CEA, statin use was associated with a 3-fold reduction in 30-day stroke (P ¼ .019)
and a 5-fold decrease in 30-day mortality (P ¼ .049).90
Other studies conﬁrmed the beneﬁcial impact of statin
use on perioperative CEA outcomes among symptomatic91 and asymptomatic patients.92 Most recently, a
meta-analysis of seven studies and 21,387 patients demonstrated that administration of statin medications before
CEA was associated with lower rates of perioperative
stroke and superior overall survival.93
Less has been reported on the inﬂuence of statins on
CAS outcomes, but available data parallel those for
CEA. In a retrospective review of 53 patients who underwent CAS in a single institution, the 30-day stroke/death/
MI rate was 4% in patients on statins and 15% among
those not on statins at the time of the CAS (odds ratio
[OR], 0.23; 95% CI, 0.005-0.99; P ¼ .049).94 This ﬁnding
was conﬁrmed in a study of 344 consecutive patients
who underwent CAS from 2002 to 2012. Statins were
associated with a periprocedural risk reduction in the
incidence of ischemic stroke, MI, or death (OR, 0.31;
95% CI, 0.3-0.71; P ¼ .006).95 The largest case series reported to date includes 1083 patients who underwent
CAS from 2004 to 2009. In these patients, statin use
was associated with reduced perioperative stroke and
death (OR, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.13-0.80; P ¼ .016), and the
impact of statins was more pronounced in reducing
stroke and death in symptomatic patients (OR, 0.13; P¼
.032) and in males (OR, 0.27; P ¼ .01).96
In addition, several studies have demonstrated regression in intima-media thickness in the carotid artery
among statin users compared with controls.97-99 Very
recent MRI data from the population-based Rotterdam
Study showed that among 1740 participants with carotid
atherosclerosis and a mean age of 72.9 years, statin use
was associated with a change in carotid plaque composition from vulnerable plaque with a lipid core to more
stable calciﬁed plaque.100 However, there is no compelling evidence that statin therapy is associated with clinically signiﬁcant carotid plaque regression.
When combined with lifestyle and dietary changes,
statin therapy is the most effective pharmacologic therapy for lipid-lowering.101 High intensity statin therapy includes daily atorvastatin 40 to 80 mg or rosuvastatin 20
to 40 mg. Moderate intensity statin therapy includes atorvastatin 10 to 20 mg/day, ﬂuvastatin 40 mg twice daily, or
ﬂuvastatin XL 80 mg, lovastatin 40 mg, pitavastatin 2 to
4 mg, pravastatin 40 to 80 mg, rosuvastatin 5 to 10 mg,
or simvastatin 20 to 40 mg.101 For individuals age 75 or
less with atherosclerotic disease, including carotid artery
disease, recent evidence supports high-intensity statin
therapy, or moderate-intensity statin therapy if highintensity therapy is not tolerated. For older individuals,
moderate-intensity statin therapy is recommended.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

35S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Smoking cessation
Smoking is well-recognized as a powerful risk factor for
atherosclerotic disease, including carotid artery disease
and stroke. In the Framingham study of 4255 men and
women aged 36 to 68 years, heavy cigarette smoking
was associated with a two-fold increase in stroke risk
compared with light smokers.102 This ﬁnding was
conﬁrmed in a meta-analysis of 32 studies that demonstrated the risk of stroke is nearly doubled in smokers.103
Moreover, early studies have documented that smoking
cessation reduces stroke risk in both men and
women.104,105
From a mechanistic point of view, recent studies have
suggested that smoking-related stroke risk is related at
least in part to the deleterious effect of smoking on plaque biology in the carotid artery. In a population-based
study of 4657 men in Sweden, a greater than 50% internal carotid stenosis was identiﬁed by duplex examination in 5%, 2%, and 1% of current, former, and never
smokers, respectively.106 In a pooled analysis of four
population-based cohort studies (Malmö Diet and Cancer Study, Tromsø Study, Carotid Atherosclerosis Progression Study, and Cardiovascular Health Study) that
included a total of 23,706 participants, there was a significant association between cigarette smoking and a
greater than 50% ICA stenosis (OR, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.8-2.8)
and greater than 70% ICA stenosis (OR, 3.0; 95% CI, 2.14.4).107 More recently, in the Chinese intracranial atherosclerosis study of 2656 patients with acute ischemic
stroke and 208 patients with TIA, current smoking was
associated with extracranial carotid artery disease (OR,
1.47; 95% CI, 1.09-1.99, P < .001). With each additional
year of smoking, the risk of extracranial carotid disease
increased by 1.1% (OR, 1.011; 95% CI, 1.003-1.019; P ¼
.005). Even low levels of smoking increase risk: With
one cigarette smoked per day increment, the risk of
extracranial carotid disease increased by 1.0% (OR,
1.010; 95% CI, 1.001-1.020; P ¼ .03). Finally, with one
pack-year of smoking increment, the risk of extracranial
carotid disease increased by 0.7% (OR, 1.007; 95% CI,
1.002-1.012; P < .01).108 Cigarette smoking has been
demonstrated to be associated with plaque progression,109 but no signiﬁcant association was identiﬁed between cigarette smoking and intracranial carotid
disease.108
As comprehensive vascular specialists, vascular surgeons should counsel patients regarding the deleterious
impact of smoking on overall health as well as cerebrovascular well-being. There is clear evidence that counseling is an efﬁcacious strategy that can be supported
by a number of pharmacologic adjuncts.110 In an analysis
of 12 reviews including 267 studies and more than
101,000 participants, nicotine replacement therapy was
superior to placebo (OR, 1.84; 95% CI, 1.71-1.99) and bupropion (Wellbutrin/Zyban) was also superior to placebo

(OR, 1.82; 95% CI, 1.60-2.06). Varenicline (Chantix) was also
superior to placebo in achieving quitting (OR, 2.88; 95%
CI, 2.40-3.47). Bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy were found to be equally efﬁcacious. Conversely, varenicline was superior to single forms of nicotine
replacement therapy (OR, 1.57; 95% CI, 1.29-1.91), but was
not superior to combination nicotine replacement therapy (OR, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.75-1.48). Nortriptyline was also
effective in increasing smoking cessation (RR 1.26; 95%
CI, 0.62-2.56).111
Antiplatelet and antithrombotic therapy
Although there is no compelling evidence to support a
beneﬁt of aspirin among patients with asymptomatic carotid artery disease, the US Preventive Services Task Force
recommends initiating low-dose aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults aged 50 to
59 years who have a 10-year risk of greater than 10% for
cardiovascular disease, have a life expectancy 10 years
or more, and are not at increased risk of bleeding. For individuals aged 60 to 69 years, the decision should be
individualized. There is insufﬁcient evidence to support
aspirin recommendations for individuals less than
50 years of age.112
Aspirin studies focusing on individuals with asymptomatic
carotid stenoses also show conﬂicting results. In the Asymptomatic Cervical Bruit study, 372 patients with asymptomatic stenosis greater than 50% internal carotid stenoses
were randomized to daily aspirin (325 mg) or placebo. At a
median follow-up of 2.3 years, there was no signiﬁcant differences between groups in incidence of any ischemic event or
death.113 Conversely, in the Asymptomatic Carotid Emboli
Study that focused on patients with a 70-99% asymptomatic stenosis, antiplatelet therapy was associated with lower
rates of ipsilateral stroke/TIA and any stroke/cardiovascular
death.114 In addition, a multicenter stroke registry of 10,433 individuals of whom 1914 (18.3%) were taking aspirin, aspirin
use was associated with reduced stroke severity and
improved functional outcome.115
Several studies offer strong evidence supporting the efﬁcacy of antiplatelet therapy for secondary prevention
among patients with symptomatic carotid artery disease116-122 and a meta-regression analysis of 11 trials
demonstrated an approximate 15% reduction in stroke
risk associated with aspirin use.123 Because patients
who have experienced a symptomatic episode are at
greatest risk of a second event in the ﬁrst few days after
the initial event, it is important to initiate antiplatelet
therapy as soon as possible. In a meta-analysis
comparing aspirin vs control that included 12 randomized clinical trials with nearly 16,000 patients, at 6 weeks
there was a 60% decrease in the risk of recurrent stroke
(hazard ratio [HR], 0.42; 95% CI, 0.32-0.55, P < .0001)
and a 70% decrease in the risk of a fatal stroke (HR,
0.29; 95% CI, 0.2-0.42; P < .0001).124

36S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

Breakthrough ischemic events may occur in some patients who are compliant with aspirin therapy owing to
aspirin resistance. There is some evidence that aspirin’s
reduced antithrombotic efﬁcacy may be more common
in patients who take enteric coated aspirin or lower dose
therapy (81 mg) compared with those taking uncoated
aspirin (325 mg).125 However, routine laboratory testing
for platelet reactivity is not supported by the evidence.126
Three randomized clinical trials compared aspirin with
anticoagulation with warfarin among patients with noncardioembolic TIA or stroke. These studies failed to
demonstrate superiority of anticoagulation over antiplatelet therapy in reducing the incidence of ischemic
events, although there was an increased incidence of
bleeding complications associated with anticoagulation.127-129 A recent meta-analysis of eight clinical trials
comparing anticoagulation with antiplatelet therapy for
secondary prevention of stroke identiﬁed no difference
in prevention of vascular events.130
In addition to aspirin, clopidogrel, the combination
agent aspirin þ dipyridamole, and dual antiplatelet therapy have all been investigated in this clinical scenario but
the optimal regimen is not clear. In the Clopidogrel vs
Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischemic Events (CAPRIE)
trial, there was a small advantage of clopidogrel over
aspirin in reducing overall ischemic events.131 However,
analysis of a subset of patients with a prior history of
stroke in the CAPRIE trial demonstrated no difference
in incidence of vascular events.131 In the European/Australasian Stroke Prevention in Reversible Ischemia Trial,
patients were randomized to aspirin or aspirin þ
extended release dipyridamole therapy within 6 months
of a TIA or stroke. The study showed a statistically significant lower rate of vascular events in patients who
received the combination regimen.132
In the Prevention Regimen for Effectively Avoiding Second Strokes trial, patients received either clopidogrel or
aspirin þ extended release dipyridamole. This trial
showed no difference in the rate of recurrent strokes,
but there was a lower incidence of major hemorrhagic
events in the clopidogrel group.133 In a recent metaanalysis of 13 randomized clinical trials of patients with
cerebral infarction, patients who received aspirin þ dipyridamole had lower mortality compared with those who
received aspirin þ clopidogrel (OR , 0.46; 95% CI, 0.180.99).134
There is considerable evidence supporting dual antiplatelet therapy in secondary stroke prevention. In the Clopidogrel in High Risk Patients with Acute Nondisabling
Cerebrovascular events (CHANCE) trial, patients were randomized to aspirin þ clopidogrel or aspirin alone within
24 hours of experiencing a TIA or minor stroke. Stroke
occurred in 8.2% of patients in the aspirin þ clopidogrel
group, compared with 11.7% of patients who took aspirin
alone (HR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.57-0.81; P < .001). Moderate or severe hemorrhage occurred in seven patients (0.3%) in the

clopidogrel-aspirin group and in eight (0.3%) in the aspirin
group (P ¼ .73) and the rate of hemorrhagic stroke was 0.3%
in each group.135 A subsequent meta-analysis assessed trials including the following regimens: Aspirin þ clopidogrel
vs aspirin; aspirin þ clopidogrel vs clopidogrel; aspirin þ
dipyridamole vs aspirin; aspirin þ dipyridamole vs dipyridamole; aspirin þ dipyridamole vs clopidogrel; and
cilostazol þ aspirin vs aspirin. This meta-analysis concluded
that dual antiplatelet therapy was associated with a 31%
relative risk reduction in stroke incidence compared with
monotherapy.136 Finally, consistent with recognition that
plaque instability is greatest early after an ischemic event,
dual antiplatelet therapy appears clinically beneﬁcial in
the early weeks following these events. A meta-analysis of
eight randomized clinical trials including 20,728 patients
demonstrated that short-term (<3 months) dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel compared with
aspirin alone signiﬁcantly decreased risk of recurrent stroke
but it did not increase risk of hemorrhagic complications.
Relative to monotherapy with aspirin, dual therapy with
aspirin and clopidogrel reduced risk of stroke recurrence
(RR, 0.69; 95% CI, 0.59-0.81; P < .01) and did not increase
the risk of hemorrhagic stroke (RR, 1.23; 95% CI, 0.50-3.04;
P ¼ .65) or major bleeding events (RR, 2.17; 95% CI, 0.1825.71; P ¼ .54). However, short-term combination therapy
was associated with a signiﬁcantly lower risk of major
vascular events (RR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.69-0.82; P < .01). Longterm, however, dual antiplatelet therapy did not decrease
the risk of stroke recurrence (RR, 0.92; 95% CI, 0.83-1.03;
P ¼ .15), but it was associated with a signiﬁcantly higher
risk of hemorrhagic stroke (RR, 1.67; 95% CI, 1.10-2.56; P ¼
.02) and major bleeding events (RR, 1.90; 95% CI, 1.46-2.48;
P < .01). Long-term combination therapy also failed to
reduce the risk of major vascular events (RR, 0.92; 95% CI,
0.84-1.03; P ¼ .09).137
Alternate antiplatelet agents are also being investigated for secondary prevention among patients with
symptomatic carotid disease. In a recent meta-analysis
of 36 randomized clinical trials, the efﬁcacy of conventional antiplatelet agents (aspirin; clopidogrel) was
compared with newer agents (cilostazol; triﬂusal). The
major ﬁnding was a trend indicating cilostazol was associated with reduced risk of recurrent stroke compared
with low-dose aspirin þ dipyridamole (OR, 0.75; 95% CI,
0.52-1.02) and clopidogrel (OR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.51-1.05),
but these differences were not statistically signiﬁcant.138
Finally, some surgeons selectively use dextran 40 in the
immediate postoperative period after CEA. The rationale
for use relates to case series that identiﬁed transcranial
Doppler (TCD)-detected microembolization which occurs during CEA and immediately postoperatively, and
the reduced number of microemboli with dextran 40
infusion. For example, in a series of 163 patients who underwent CEA, dextran 40 was infused for any patient
who manifested more than 25 emboli within 10 minutes.
It was infused in nine patients (5%) and rapidly

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

37S

Volume 75, Number 1S

controlled embolization.139 In a similar study, 156 patients
undergoing CEA were randomized to receive dextran 40
or placebo. TCD detected embolic signals in 57% of placebo and 42% of dextran patients. At 2 to 3 hours postoperatively, embolic signals were detected in 45% of
placebo and 27% of dextran patients, with embolic
signal counts 64% lower for dextran patients (P ¼
.040).140 In a report of 400 patients monitored with
TCD during CEA, more than 25 emboli in 10 minutes after
unclamping were detected in 216 patients (54%).
Following initiation of dextran 40, embolization ceased
in all cases and there were no strokes or acute carotid
thromboses in these patients.141 Another review reported
a 46% decrease in emboli when dextran was administered during CEA.142
Previous work demonstrated increased platelet activation during CEA. In a study of 38 CEA patients who
were taking aspirin and who received heparin intraoperatively, P-selectin binding index was assessed as a measure of platelet activation. P-selectin levels rose after
incision, during carotid clamping, after clamp release,
and at 1 hour and 24 hours postoperatively. Likewise,
TCD revealed an increase in embolic signals compared
with the rate of preoperative signals during the dissection, after clamp release, and during recovery. Six patients who had greater than 50 high intensity signals
per 30 minutes received dextran 40 and a signiﬁcant
reduction in P-selectin levels (P < .05) was noted after
dextran therapy in these patients.143 These ﬁndings indicate that platelet aggregation occurs during CEA despite
conventional antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and heparin administration, and that it may be ameliorated with
dextran 40.144 Recent work suggested that dextran may
exert a combined therapeutic effect by enhancing
endogenous ﬁbrinolysis as well as reducing platelet
adhesion to von Willebrand factor and platelet activation
by thrombin.145
Although these observations make a compelling case
for the efﬁcacy of dextran use among patients undergoing CEA, objective clinical beneﬁt has not been
deﬁnitively demonstrated. Further, in a recent review
of the Vascular Study Group of New England, including
89 surgeons and 66641 CEA procedures performed
from 2003 to 2020, intraoperative dextran administration did not decrease the rate of perioperative stroke,
but it was associated with an increased incidence of
postoperative MI and congestive heart failure.146
Because this study investigated intraoperative dextran
use, an objective assessment of the clinical risk/beneﬁt
ratio of postoperative dextran is not possible. There is
clearly no Level 1 evidence to recommend for or against
use of dextran among patients undergoing CEA, so this
should be a clinical judgment made by the operating
surgeon.

Perioperative medical management for patients undergoing CEA and carotid stenting
Carotid endarterectomy. Perioperative medical management of patients undergoing CEA should include
blood pressure control, and beta blocker, statin, and antiplatelet therapy.
Postoperative hypertension is a well-recognized risk
factor for stroke and TIAs, wound bleeding, and intracranial hemorrhage.60,147-150 Therefore, strict attention to
preoperative blood pressure control, as noted elsewhere
in this article, is important in optimizing postoperative
outcomes. Postoperative ﬂuctuations of hypertension
and hypotension are not uncommon.
If hypotension does not respond to a ﬂuid infusion,
phenylephrine is accepted therapy with the dose
adjusted to maintain systolic blood pressure within
20 mm Hg of the preoperative level. Conversely, hypertensive episodes should be treated with an infusion of
nitroprusside. The effect is immediate, and can be
quickly removed with cessation of the infusion. Intravenous nitroglycerin may be administered for myocardial
ischemia.
MI is the most frequent non-neurologic complication
of CEA. Beta blockers should be continued in patients
undergoing noncardiac surgery who have been on
these drugs chronically. It may be reasonable to begin
perioperative beta blockers for patients with intermediate or high risk for myocardial ischemia, or for patients with three or more Revised Cardiac Risk Index
risk factors such as heart failure, coronary artery disease, renal insufﬁciency, diabetes mellitus, or cerebrovascular accident. It is important to recognize that
initiation of any beta blocker therapy should be sufﬁciently in advance of surgery to assess safety and
tolerability.151 Perioperative beta blockade started
within 1 day or less before noncardiac surgery prevents
nonfatal MI, but increases risk of stroke, death, hypotension, and bradycardia.151
Several series have demonstrated that perioperative
statins are associated with signiﬁcant reductions in 30day stroke and death rates among patients undergoing
CEA.90-92 These ﬁndings are consistent with other studies
of patients undergoing an array of other vascular procedures. In a randomized clinical trial of patients undergoing
vascular surgical procedures, atorvastatin use was associated with a lower rate of perioperative stroke, MI, and
death152 and a meta-analysis identiﬁed a reduced rate
of perioperative mortality among vascular surgery patients who were on statins.153 In addition, an observational study of 780,591 patients undergoing noncardiac
surgery showed that risk-adjusted mortality was signiﬁcantly lower among patients taking a perioperative
statin.154 There is also some recent evidence suggesting
that patients taking statin medications at the time of
CEA

38S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

may have reduced rates of perioperative spontaneous
embolization compared with those not taking statins.155 These clinical beneﬁts may be partly due to
the anti-inﬂammatory and plaque-stabilizing pleiotropic effects of statin medications,156,157 but is not clear
how soon before surgery one should start a patient on
statins to achieve these beneﬁcial effects. However, the
sudden withdrawal of statin medications in the perioperative period should be avoided, because there is evidence that sudden cessation may be associated with
increased perioperative cardiovascular morbidity and
mortality.158
Patients should remain on aspirin therapy perioperatively,159 and low-dose aspirin (81 mg or 325 mg) seems
to be as effective as higher dose aspirin.160 The beneﬁt
of aspirin in reducing the rate of perioperative stroke
without increasing bleeding complications was
demonstrated in a randomized trial.161 However, some
previous work also suggested that sudden cessation
of chronic aspirin therapy may be associated with a
rebound increased incidence of ischemic events but
recent data do not support this observation.162,163
Continuation of dual antiplatelet therapy in the perioperative period should be individualized. In a metaanalysis of three randomized clinical trials including
36,881 patients undergoing CEA, dual antiplatelet therapy was not associated with reduced risk of perioperative stroke, TIA, or death, but it was associated with
increased risk of neck hematoma and major bleeding
complications.164 Conversely, in a review of 10,46 patients undergoing vascular surgerydincluding 5264 undergoing CEAdthere was no difference in the risk of
bleeding complications among patients on aspirin, clopidogrel, or dual aspirin þ clopidogrel therapy, or no
antiplatelet therapy.165 Clearly, among those patients
with a speciﬁc indication for clopidogrel such as symptomatic carotid disease or recent stent placement, dual
antiplatelet therapy is indicated. Intraoperative anticoagulation, and protamine reversal, is discussed in Section on Anticoagulation and protamine reversal.
Carotid stenting. Perioperative medical management
of CAS patients is similar to those undergoing CEA,
including blood pressure control and beta blocker use.
Similarly, although there is currently no Level 1 evidence
to inform on the efﬁcacy of statins among patients undergoing CAS, individual case series support this
approach. For example, in a series of 180 patients undergoing CAS, the 30-day risk of stroke, death, and MI was
4% among statin users vs 15% among nonusers (P <
.05).94 In another series of 344 CAS patients, multivariate
analysis demonstrated that statin use was a signiﬁcant
predictor of reduced peri-interventional incidence of
ischemic stroke, MI, or death (OR, 0.31; P ¼ .006).95
Further, in the largest series reported to dated1083 patients undergoing CASdmultivariable analysis showed

that statin use was associated with a reduction in the
incidence of perioperative stroke and death (OR, 0.327,
95% CI, 0.13-0.80; P ¼ .016).96
With respect to antiplatelet therapy, there also are no
randomized clinical trials assessing the beneﬁt of aspirin
vs dual therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel for patients
undergoing CAS. Current recommendations are therefore largely based on experience with coronary artery
stents. Dual antiplatelet therapy including aspirin
(325 mg) and clopidogrel (75 mg) should be initiated
before CAS, and continued for 4 weeks after the procedure.166 There is no evidence to indicate that continuing
clopidogrel beyond four weeks improves coronary
outcomes.167
Summary and recommendations
1. In patients with arteriosclerotic arterial disease, we
recommend aggressive antihypertensive therapy.
2. In severely hypertensive patients undergoing CEA, we
recommend aggressive blood pressure lowering.
3. In severely hypertensive patients undergoing carotid
artery stent procedures, we recommend aggressive
blood pressure lowering.
4. In patients with known atherosclerotic disease, we
recommend reducing LDL levels with lipid-lowering
agents.
5. In patients with a prior history of stroke or TIA, we
recommend statin therapy.
6. In patients without a prior history of cardiovascular
disease, we recommend statins in the primary prevention of fatal and nonfatal strokes.
7. In active smokers, we recommend complete smoking
cessation.
8. In active smokers, we recommend pharmacologic
treatment in addition to counseling to achieve smoking cessation.
9. In patients with symptomatic carotid artery disease,
we recommend antiplatelet therapy with aspirin for
secondary prevention.
10. In patients with a history of noncardiogenic TIAs or
stroke, we do not recommend anticoagulation over
aspirin therapy.
11. In patients with a history of stroke or TIAs within
6 months, we recommend dual antiplatelet therapy
with aspirin and dipyridamole.
12. In patients with a history of TIAs or minor stroke within
24 hours, we also recommend dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel over aspirin alone
as an alternative to aspirin and dipyridamole.
13. In patients with increased cardiac risk factors undergoing noncardiac surgery, we recommend starting
beta blockade therapy. If not currently on the medication, it should be started as soon as possible preoperatively so that one has an opportunity to assess its
hemodynamic effect. Therefore, beta blockers should
not be started on the day of or 1 day before the
procedure.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

39S

Volume 75, Number 1S

14. In patients undergoing CEA, we recommend statin
therapy.
15. In patients undergoing CEA, we recommend
continuing aspirin therapy.
16. In patients undergoing CEA, during the perioperative
period we recommend individualizing the continued
use of dual antiplatelet therapy based on speciﬁc indications (eg, cardiac).
17. In patients with increased cardiac risk factors undergoing carotid stent procedures, we recommend starting beta blockade therapy. If not currently on the
medication, it should be started as soon as possible
preoperatively so that one has an opportunity to
assess its hemodynamic effect. Therefore, beta
blockers should not be started on the day of or 1 day
before the procedure.
18. In patients undergoing CAS, we recommend statin
use.
19. In patients undergoing CAS, we recommend dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin (325 mg) and clopidogrel (75 mg) initiated before the procedure and
continued for 4 weeks after the procedure.

CAROTID INTERVENTION INDICATIONS
A. Is CEA recommended over maximal medical therapy
in low surgical risk patients?
See the Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3
B. Is CEA recommended over transfemoral CAS in low
surgical risk patients with symptomatic carotid artery
stenosis of greater than 50%?
See the Clinical Practice Guidelines document.3
Once a patient with clinically signiﬁcant carotid stenosis is identiﬁed, appropriate treatment must be selected.
Treatment is primarily directed at reducing stroke risk.
The risks associated with an interventional treatment
must be compared with those of optimal medical therapy when treatment choices are made. In general, risk
of stroke, MI, and death are used when comparing transfemoral CAS with CEA. In most clinical trials comparing
transfemoral CAS with CEA, stroke, MI, and death have
been given equal weight in determining a composite
end point to test overall efﬁcacy. Data from the Carotid
Revascularization Endarterectomy vs Stenting Trial
(CREST),5 however, indicate that stroke has a more significant effect on quality of life at 1 year than nonfatal MI. In
developing its recommendations, the committee placed
greater emphasis on stroke prevention and procedurally
related death than periprocedural MI because the primary goal of intervention in carotid stenosis is stroke prevention. This may result in committee recommendations
that differ from the published results of some trials in
which these three outcomes were allocated equal analytic weight.

The major determinants of the clinical course of patients with carotid bifurcation stenosis are the presence
or absence of neurologic symptoms and the severity of
stenosis. Treatment is chosen based on assessment of
risk associated with the intervention and the likelihood
that a particular intervention will favorably alter the
course of disease.
The threat of stroke in asymptomatic patients with less
than 60% ICA stenosis and in symptomatic patients
with less than 50% stenosis is generally considered to
be small and does not warrant intervention. ECST and
NASCET demonstrated that CEA did not signiﬁcantly
reduce subsequent neurologic event rates in patients
with symptoms of cerebral ischemia and bifurcation
stenosis of less than 50% diameter reduction and it
was actually associated with increased morbidity
compared with medical management.37,168 Notably,
stenoses of less than 60% diameter reduction were
excluded from the asymptomatic studies,28,169
assuming that asymptomatic patients with stenosis
less than 60% would not beneﬁt from carotid reconstruction. Given ﬁndings of the symptomatic trials, this
exclusion proved to be an appropriate decision. There
have been no studies supporting either CEA or transfemoral CAS for asymptomatic patients with less than
60% ICA stenosis.170
Assessing the risk associated with carotid intervention
There are certain anatomic and physiologic conditions
that can increase risk of speciﬁc carotid revascularization
methodologies regardless of the patient’s symptomatic
status. For instance, high bifurcation or high cervical
lesion above C2 may increase risk of CEA171 and aortic
arch tortuosity can increase risk of transfemoral
CAS.172,173 Accordingly, risk stratiﬁcation can generally
be divided into two categories: Anatomic (including the
lesion) characteristics and patient-speciﬁc or physiologic
characteristics.
Risk stratiﬁcation based on anatomic and lesion
characteristics
Lesion location and vessel tortuosity.
High risk for CEA. CEA provides excellent access to the
cervical carotid artery, but lesions that extend outside
this zone can be difﬁcult to treat surgically. It is generally
understood that lesions at or above the level of the C2
cervical vertebra or at or below the clavicle are generally
more difﬁcult to expose surgically during CEA without
increasing the morbidity associated with the procedure.171 Lesions of the distal cervical carotid artery can be
exposed by division of the posterior belly of the digastric
muscle and subluxation or division of the mandible, as
required.171,174 Although rarely required, these high carotid exposures may be associated with increased difﬁculty in directly visualizing the end point of the

40S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

endarterectomy as well as increased risk of cranial
nerve injury (CNI), particularly cranial nerve IX.171,174 Lesions of the very proximal CCA are difﬁcult or impossible to expose without extending the incision into the
chest. This must be considered when evaluating the
morbidity of the procedure. There are no extracranial
carotid lesion locations that increase risk of transfemoral CAS
High risk for transfemoral CAS. Tortuosity of the aortic
arch and target vessel can decrease the technical success rate and increase risk of stroke and death among
patients who undergo transfemoral CAS.175 For
example, increased aortic arch tortuosity in a type III
arch can make sheath or guide catheter placement
difﬁcult or impossible.172,173 In addition, signiﬁcant CCA
and/or ICA tortuosity can increase the risk of technical
failure and stroke. In particular, the presence of ICA
tortuosity can make crossing the lesion and positioning
a distal embolic protection ﬁlter difﬁcult. In the
tortuous ICA it may be difﬁcult to ﬁnd a sufﬁcient
length of carotid artery above the lesion with parallel
walls, a challenge that may decrease the effectiveness
of distal embolic protection ﬁlters in trapping generated debris that can occur during the procedure.172
Atherosclerotic disease burden in the arch can directly
impact stroke risk during transfemoral CAS because of
catheter manipulations that need to be performed in
the aortic arch to engage the target vessel. This risk can
be best identiﬁed on preprocedure CTA.172
The presence of iliac artery occlusion, severe stenosis
or tortuosity can make sheath placement into the
aortic arch difﬁcult if not impossible. Alternative access
sites that traverse the aortic arch have been reported,
such as brachial or radial arterial access. Limited data
render assessment of the efﬁcacy of these approaches
unclear.
High risk for transcervical carotid stent. There are
limited data examining the efﬁcacy of transcarotid artery
revascularization (TCAR) in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with severe carotid occlusive disease. Since
this procedure accesses the CCA above the clavicle, relative contraindications include lesions that are less than
5 cm cranial to the clavicle.176 In addition, severe target
vessel tortuosity and small (<6 mm) CCA, signiﬁcantly
diseased CCA (excess calciﬁcation or thrombus) and/or
depth of CCA which make access difﬁcult are also relative contraindications.177,178
Lesion morphology
Lesion morphology such as echolucency, calciﬁcation,
long irregular plaques, the presence of fresh thrombus
or a string sign can affect outcomes and alter decision
making concerning carotid revascularization.172,175 This
section examines the impact of lesion morphology on
outcome following carotid revascularization techniques.

High risk for CEA. Lesion-speciﬁc morphology generally
does not have a signiﬁcant impact on CEA outcome. The
degree of lesion calciﬁcation, echolucency, and the presence of fresh thrombus have not been shown to impact
risk of neurologic events following CEA as these lesions
can be removed en bloc. Long complex lesions can also
be treated with no increase in complication if they do
not extend above the lower endplate of the C2 vertebral
body. The presence of a carotid string sign in which the
extra and intracranial ICA is diminutive may be a relative
contraindication. In most instances the carotid artery is
small because it is under pressurized, and patients with
a proximal ICA atherosclerotic lesion can be treated
safely.179 However, it is important to acknowledge that
there is little clinical evidence guiding treatment indications for patients with a carotid string sign, nor is there
guidance on whether CEA or carotid stenting are equally
effective in this setting. In a small series of patients undergoing intervention, the 30-day stroke risk for CEA was
2.1% vs 2.4% for CAS. Restenosis risk was 5% for both
groups over 1 to 5 years of follow-up.180
High risk for transfemoral CAS. Lesion morphology
has a signiﬁcant impact on outcomes for patients undergoing transfemoral CAS. Very tight stenosis, irregular
calciﬁed stenosis, and long lesions can limit the ability
to deliver the stent across the lesion.172,175 Carotid
bifurcation stent placement in heavily or circumferentially calciﬁed lesions has been associated with a
signiﬁcant risk of stent fracture and deformation.181
Fresh thrombus within the carotid bifurcation is a
contraindication to carotid stent placement with distal
embolic protection devices (EPDs) because of risk of
embolization while crossing the lesion as well
thrombus disruption and embolization after stent
placement. Similarly, long, complex lesions can increase risk of embolization during placement of the
distal EPD and should, therefore, be approached
cautiously when considering transfemoral CAS.175 It is
unclear how the presence of a carotid string sign impacts patient outcomes after transfemoral CAS.
High risk for TCAR. Similar to transfemoral CAS,
circumferential or large bulky carotid bifurcation plaques can limit the ability to deliver the stent across
the lesion. Carotid bifurcation stent placement in
heavily or circumferentially calciﬁed lesions has been
associated with signiﬁcant risk of stent fracture and
deformation. As a result, heavily calciﬁed carotid bifurcation lesions are a relative contraindication to stent
placement. Early data suggest that long, complex,
and echolucent lesions may be treated safely with
TCAR because of proximal ﬂow reversal before crossing
the stenosis. However, the level of evidence to support
this observation is much lower than that for CEA and
transfemoral CAS.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

41S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Risk
stratiﬁcation
based
on
patient-speciﬁc
characteristics
Patient-speciﬁc factors can inﬂuence outcome
following carotid revascularization. These factors include
nonvascular hostile anatomy such as previous neck surgery or radiation. The second category of patientspeciﬁc factors includes physiologic comorbidities such
as congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive lung disease, and renal insufﬁciency. This section examines the
inﬂuence of patient-speciﬁc factors on outcomes after
various revascularization options.
High risk for CEA.
Hostile nonvascular anatomy. Several anatomic situations may increase the difﬁculty of CEA. These include
reoperation after prior CEA, existence of a cervical stoma,
history of neck radiotherapy with resultant local ﬁbrotic
changes of the skin and soft tissues, and previous ablative neck surgery such as radical neck dissection and laryngectomy.171,182-184 Previous cervical fusion or severe
cervical kyphosis or immobility owing to arthritis can also
make CEA more technically challenging. Although CEA
can be performed successfully in these situations,
particularly when the tissues of the ipsilateral neck are
not scarred and ﬁbrotic, these circumstances can increase risk of wound infection, difﬁculty of dissection,
and potentially, risk of CNI. Among obese patients, the
presence of a short neck may make dissection more
tedious but has not been associated with increased
operative risk.
Medical high risk. It seems intuitive that the risk of periprocedural events after CEA or CAS might be increased
in patients presenting with severe comorbid conditions,
including dialysis-dependent renal failure, New York
Heart Association functional class III or IV heart disease, a
left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 30%, class III
or IV angina pectoris, left main or multivessel coronary
disease, severe aortic valvular disease, oxygen- or steroiddependent pulmonary disease, contralateral carotid occlusion, and advanced age. However, few data exist to
support one therapy over another in these patients.7,185 In
fact, deﬁning a high-risk patient is much more subjective
than deﬁning a high-risk lesion.182,183,186,187 CAS is associated with a lower risk of cardiac events than CEA.
Assuming appropriate anatomy for either procedure,
CAS is therefore preferred over CEA when severe cardiac
comorbidities exist in neurologically symptomatic
patients.
Chronic renal insufﬁciency has been associated with
increased risk of stroke and death after transfemoral
CAS188,189 and CEA.190,191 Univariate and multivariate analyses both show that among patients with chronic kidney disease, 6-month risk of death, stroke, and MI after
transfemoral CAS were associated with HRs of greater
than 2.5.188 Chronic renal insufﬁciency also increases
the risk of stroke after CEA (1.08%-5.56%). Among asymptomatic patients with cardiac or renal insufﬁciency, best

medical therapy may be preferable to transfemoral
CAS or CEA. CEA or transfemoral CAS may be considered
among symptomatic high-risk patients with moderate
to severe carotid stenosis, but the effectiveness over
medical therapy is not well-established.
There are conﬂicting data on the inﬂuence of contralateral occlusion on CEA or transfemoral CAS outcomes.
NASCET reported that a contralateral occlusion
increased risk of stroke after CEA from 5.8% to approximately 14%.33 However, most reports on contralateral occlusion do not support this observation, and a metaanalysis suggested a much more modest increase, from
2.4% to 3.7%.192,193 Although this increase in stroke risk
was statistically signiﬁcant, the results remain within
AHA recommended guidelines. Several single-center
studies have shown excellent results in patients with
contralateral carotid occlusion.194,195 A possible explanation for this discrepancy may be linked to inadequate
sample sizes in the single-center studies. Alternatively,
more consistent intraoperative management techniques, including algorithms for maintaining intraoperative cerebral perfusion, are more likely to occur in a
single-center experience than in multicentered studies.5
AbuRahma et al196 reported on perioperative and late
stroke rates of CEA contralateral to carotid artery occlusion. In a trial of 399 CEAs with randomization done by
arterial closure method, 49 patients had contralateral
carotid artery occlusion (group A) and 350 patients
did not (group B). Strokes were designated as contralateral if they arose from the occluded side and ipsilateral
if they arose from the same CEA side. Risk of all strokes
(operative and late) and perioperative strokes was 4.1%
and 2% (2% contralateral and 2% ipsilateral) for group
A and 3.4% (all ipsilateral) and 2.9% for group B (P ¼
.85 and P ¼.60, respectively). The risk of all neurologic
events (stroke and TIA) and perioperative events was
18.4% and 2% for group A and 9.7% and 5.4% for group
B (P ¼ .113 and P ¼.27, respectively). At 5 years, the cumulative stroke-free survival was 84% in group A and
77% in group B (P > .1). Notably, all patients were
routinely shunted. In this report, survival rates and risk
of perioperative and all late strokes were comparable
in patients with contralateral occlusion and to those
without.196
Because there is a demonstrable risk of CNI after CEA
that is absent after transfemoral CAS, patients with a history of a contralateral vocal cord paralysis are at
increased risk with CEA vs transfemoral CAS. Thus, transfemoral CAS may be preferred in these patients.
High risk for transfemoral CAS.
Hostile nonvascular anatomy. Because of the remote
location in which the carotid bifurcation is accessed,
the impact of hostile nonvascular anatomy on
transfemoral-CAS stroke risk is minimal and in many instances is the preferred approach for treating these
patients.

42S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

Medical high risk. Transfemoral CAS is associated with
higher stroke risk than CEA in patients aged more than
80 years,5,197-199 and in the CREST study, transfemoral
CAS was associated with increased stroke risk in patients
aged more than 70 years.5 This was conﬁrmed in a metaanalysis of four randomized trials comparing CEA and
transfemoral CAS.199 Similarly, a study by Hicks et al200
using VQI data demonstrated a higher risk of stroke
and death in patients meeting Medicare high-risk criteria
(HR, 1.65; 95% CI, 1.05-2.60; P ¼ .03) undergoing transfemoral CAS vs CEA.
High risk for TCAR.
Hostile nonvascular anatomy. Although similar to
CEA, several anatomic considerations that may increase
the difﬁculty of CEA may not be as prohibitive for
TCAR. For example, if the proximal CCA is not exposed
during the primary CEA, there may be no increased risk
for TCAR in the treatment of carotid restenosis after
CEA. Additionally, because the magnitude of surgical
exposure is less than standard CEA (carotid bifurcation
exposure), exposure of the proximal CCA is not as prone
to nerve injury. Nonetheless, cervical stoma, history of
neck radiotherapy with resultant local ﬁbrotic changes
of the skin and soft tissues, and previous ablative neck
surgery, such as radical neck dissection and laryngectomy,171,182-184 would be relative contraindications for
TCAR. Similar to CEA, TCAR can be performed successfully in these situations. However, it can be associated
with an increased risk of wound infection, difﬁculty of
dissection, and potentially, the incidence of vagus nerve
injury (group consensus).
Neurologic symptoms.
Symptomatic with a greater than 50% ICA stenosis.
CEA in symptomatic stenosis. Both NASCET and ECST
demonstrated the beneﬁt of CEA in neurologically symptomatic patients with carotid stenosis that reduced
diameter of greater than 50%.28,37,168 NASCET demonstrated an absolute risk reduction of stroke of 17% at
2 years (24% in medical arm vs 7% in surgical arm) for
patients with a greater than 70% carotid stenosis. The
ECST demonstrated a similar decrease in stroke risk in
symptomatic patients after 3 years. The stroke risk in the
medical arm was 26.5%, compared with 14.9% in the
surgical group, an absolute reduction of 11.6%.37 In both
studies, the risk of stroke in the medical arm, and
therefore the beneﬁt of CEA, increased with degree of
stenosis. The results of these trials established CEA as the
treatment of choice for patients with severe carotid stenosis, and they are widely accepted throughout the
medical community. At 5 years, the beneﬁt of CEA
among patients with stenosis of 50% to 69% was more
moderate, but still statistically signiﬁcantda 15.7% stroke
rate after CEA vs 22.2% with medical therapy.168 Stenoses
of less than 50% do not beneﬁt from CEA.
Transfemoral CAS in symptomatic stenosis. A number of trials examined transfemoral CAS in management

of neurologically symptomatic patients with a greater
than 50% diameter stenosis. Several early trials in high
surgical risk patients such as Stenting and Angioplasty
with Protection in Patients at High Risk for Endarterectomy (SAPPHIRE), demonstrated overall equivalence of
transfemoral CAS and CEA in management of carotid
stenosis, although the number of symptomatic patients
was too small for subgroup analysis.201 Two large randomized European trials, Endarterectomy vs Angioplasty
in Patients with Symptomatic Severe Carotid Stenosis
(EVA-3S)7 and Stent Protected Angioplasty vs CEA
(SPACE1),8 examined CAS vs CEA in neurologically
symptomatic patients. EVA-3S showed a statistically
inferior 30-day outcome for transfemoral CAS compared
with CEA (stroke death, 9.5% vs 3.8%) in these patients.
However, this study was criticized because of the relatively low level of operator experience (minimum of 12
transfemoral CAS cases or 35 supra-aortic trunk cases, of
which 5 had to be transfemoral CAS procedures)
required in the CAS arm. The Stent-Supported Percutaneous Angioplasty of the Carotid Artery vs Endarterectomy (SPACE) trial was designed to test “equivalence”
between CEA and CAS in patients with neurologic
symptoms but the trial was stopped after recruitment of
1200 patients owing to the futility of proving equivalence
between the two treatments. The 30-day risk of death or
ipsilateral stroke was 6.84% for CAS and 6.34% for CEA in
1183 randomized patients. However, the study was not
powered appropriately and failed to show noninferiority
of transfemoral CAS compared with CEA (P < .09).
More recently, two large, randomized trials have been
completed. The International Carotid Stenting Study
Trial (ICST)6 enrolled 1713 patients and demonstrated
signiﬁcantly increased periprocedural stroke risk for
transfemoral CAS (7.7%) compared with CEA (4.1%) in
neurologically symptomatic patients (P < .002). The risk
of any stroke or death less than 30 days after treatment
in the stenting group was more than twice that in the
endarterectomy group (7.4% vs 3.4%; P < .0004). In addition, the composite end point of stroke, death, and MI
signiﬁcantly favored CEA (5.2%) vs transfemoral CAS
(8.5%; P < .006). These ﬁndings are similar to those of
the symptomatic patients in the CREST Trial. Periprocedural risk of stroke and death was signiﬁcantly higher
in transfemoral CAS vs CEA among symptomatic patients (6.0% 6 0.9% vs 3.2% 6 0.7%; HR, 1.89; 95% CI,
1.11-3.21; P < .02). The risk of MI was lower after transfemoral CAS vs CEA among symptomatic patients
(1.0% 6 0.4% vs 2.3% 6 0.6%; HR, 0.45; 95% CI, 0.18-1.11;
P < .08); however, these differences were not signiﬁcant.
If CREST patients older than 80 years are removed to
allow CREST to be compared with other trials, results
from the symptomatic cohort demonstrated that
30-day stroke and death risk was signiﬁcantly lower
among the patients undergoing CEA (2.6%þ0.7% for
CEA and 5.6%þ1.0% for transfemoral CAS; P ¼ .006). A

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

43S

Volume 75, Number 1S

2020 Cochrane Review showed that in symptomatic patients, transfemoral CAS was associated with higher risk
of periprocedural death or stroke than CEA, (OR, 1.70;
95% CI, 1.31-2.19; P < .0001, I2 ¼ 5%; 10 trials; 5396 participants; high certainty evidence).202
Long-term outcomes of transfemoral CAS vs CEA in
symptomatic patients have been examined in a preplanned pooled analysis of data from the EVA-3S, SPACE,
International Carotid Stenting Study (ICSS), and CREST
Trials. Together, these trials randomized 4754 symptomatic patients with a greater than 50% ICA stenosis with
median follow-up of 2.0 to 6.9 years. Risk of stroke or death
within 120 days of the index procedure was 5.5% for CEA
and 8.7% for transfemoral CAS (risk difference, 3.2%; 95%
CI, 1.7-4.7). Beyond the periprocedural period of 120 days,
there was no difference in annual risk of late ipsilateral
stroke (annual event rate of 0.60% for CEA vs 0.64% for
transfemoral CAS),9 lending support to the conclusion
that both procedures have similar midterm outcomes.
However, long-term outcomes continue to favor CEA
because of its lower periprocedural stroke and death
rate. In addition, 10-year outcomes comparing CEA and
transfemoral CAS have been published. In symptomatic
patients from CREST, a combined end point of periprocedural stroke and death and 10-year ipsilateral stroke was
7.9% (95% CI, 5.9-10.0) in patients treated with CEA vs
11% (95% CI, 8.5-13.9; HR, 1.37; 95% CI, 1.01-1.86) in patients
treated with CAS (P ¼ .04).203 A 2020 Cochrane Review
also showed the combination end point of periprocedural
death or stroke or ipsilateral stroke during follow-up was
signiﬁcantly lower with CEA.202
Despite the evidence, there is concern regarding
whether data from randomized controlled trials of CAS
can be extrapolated to real-world experience. In general,
physicians who performed carotid stenting in these trials
were highly experienced and their outcomes were rigorously assessed before they were allowed to enroll patients.204 By contrast, in a review of physicians treating
Medicare beneﬁciaries with CAS, fewer than 10% would
meet criteria to participate in CREST based on low volume or high complication rate.205 It is unclear if similar
results will be obtained for CAS among clinicians who
are less experienced or among patients who would not
meet inclusion criteria for the clinical trial. Nolan
et al206 reviewed data from the Northern New England
Vascular Registry and showed a higher risk of stroke
and death in symptomatic patients treated with CAS
compared with CEA (5.1% CAS vs 1.6% CEA; P ¼ .001).
Last, in a study by Hicks et al200 looking at almost
52,000 carotid procedures in the VQI, symptomatic
high risk patients deﬁned using Medicare criteria) had a
2.3% risk of stroke and death following CEA vs 3.6% for
CAS (P < .001). The difference in stroke was two-fold
higher for CAS in the general population as well as in
propensity-matched patient cohorts (HR, 2.23; 95% CI,
1.58-3.15; P < .001).

Transcarotid artery revascularization. Early data suggest that TCAR may have a role in treatment of patients
with symptomatic carotid occlusive disease. Numerous
studies have shown that TCAR has a similar rate of
diffusion-weighted infarcts (DWI) on postprocedure MRI
compared with CEA while transfemoral CAS is associated with a two-to three-fold higher risk of DWI. Up to
50% of DWI and strokes that occur after transfemoral
CAS are contralateral, suggesting arch pathology as the
etiology. In two recently completed trials, Safety and Efﬁcacy Study for Reverse Flow Used during CAS Procedure (ROADSTER-1) and (ROADSTER-2), the risk of
periprocedural stroke in symptomatic patients from the
two trials combined was 0.6% while mortality risk was
0.6% for a combined risk of stroke and death of
1.2%.177,178 A more recent study comparing TCAR and
transfemoral CAS examined 1829 propensity scorematched patients from the VQI with symptomatic carotid disease. This study demonstrated that TCAR was
associated with signiﬁcantly lower risk of in-hospital
stroke or death compared with transfemoral CAS (2.1%
vs 4.2%; absolute difference, 2.02% [95% CI, 3.21%
to 0.83%]; RR, 0.51 [95% CI, 0.35 to 0.75]; P < .001).207
There was no difference in MI between the groups. Last,
Malas et al208 examined a more recent cohort of patient
from the VQI Trans-carotid Revascularization Project.
These investigators propensity score-matched 6384 pairs
of patients who had undergone either TCAR or CEA. In
this cohort there were 3333 symptomatic patients that
were compared. There was no difference in in-hospital
stroke and death between symptomatic patients undergoing TCAR vs CEA (2.2% vs 2.6%; P ¼ .46) and TCAR
was associated with a lower incidence of CNI and shorter
hospital stay. The impact of developing a TCAR program
on overall carotid revascularization outcomes was
examined by Columbo et al.209 These investigators
compared the risk of MACE deﬁned as stroke, death and
MI in centers who performed only CEA vs those centers
that performed both CEA and TCAR. At 1 year, the incidence of MACE was 10% lower at centers that performed
both TCAR and CEA vs CEA alone (OR, 0.9; 95% CI, 0.810.99; P ¼ .04).209 These studies seem to be promising and
have been supported by a clinical competency statement from the SVS210 and although it is important to
remember that to date the vast majority of TCAR procedures have been performed in patients at high
anatomic or medical risk for CEA the procedure appears
promising and further data in low-risk symptomatic patients are awaited.
Asymptomatic with a greater than 70% stenosis.
CEA for asymptomatic lesions. Patients with asymptomatic lesions currently account for a majority of carotid
interventions performed in the United States.1 As discussed elsewhere in this article, randomized controlled
trials such as ACAS and ACST that compared CEA with
best medical therapy showed favorable results for

44S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

CEA.28,169 ACAS demonstrated superiority of CEA over
antiplatelet therapy alone for asymptomatic patients
with carotid stenosis of greater than 60%, and these investigators recommended CEA for patients aged less
than 80 years as long as the expected combined stroke
and mortality risk for the surgeon was not more than 3%.
The long-term effectiveness of CEA in asymptomatic
patients was conﬁrmed by ACST I, as reported by Halliday et al194 compared with patients randomized to the
medical arm which primarily involved antithrombotic
and antihypertensive therapy, patients aged less than
75 years in the CEA arm had signiﬁcantly lower 10-year
stroke risk (13.3% vs 17.9%).
Some authorities suggest that CEA should be considered in average surgical risk patients with 60% to 99%
asymptomatic carotid stenosis only in the presence of
one or more risk factors that increase risk of late ipsilateral stroke. Those factors include stenosis progression, silent infarction on CTA/MRI, plaque echolucency,
intraplaque hemorrhage on MRI, large plaque area or
spontaneous embolization using TCD.10
Transfemoral CAS in asymptomatic lesions. Many
CAS studies have been in the form of “high-risk” registries.185,211-216 In 2004, the SAPPHIRE trial, which
included “high-risk” patients (70% of whom were
asymptomatic) demonstrated that stenting with cerebral protection devices was not inferior to CEA.201 The
primary end point of the study was 30-day cumulative
incidence of death/stroke/MI, which was 5.4% for
asymptomatic patients who underwent CAS and 10.2%
for CEA (P ¼.20). Critics of this study raised several
important issues, including the criteria used to deﬁne
high-risk patients for CEA, the failure to randomize more
than 50% of eligible patients, the unexpectedly high
incidence of postoperative strokedparticularly in
asymptomatic patientsdand questions about reporting
bias. Notably, MI was deﬁned only by enzymatic elevation. A number of critics suggested that the absolute
complication rates of both CAS and CEA in this study
could not be used to justify either intervention in
asymptomatic patients.217,218
CREST and Asymptomatic Carotid Trial (ACT-1) are two
recent multicenter randomized trials that enrolled significant numbers of individuals with asymptomatic carotid
artery stenosis. CREST showed that although stroke risk
with CAS was greater than that for CEA in asymptomatic
patients, the difference was not statistically signiﬁcant.
The actual risk between CAS and CEA in asymptomatic
patients for any periprocedural stroke was 2.5% vs 1.4%,
respectively, and any periprocedural stroke, death, or
postprocedural ipsilateral stroke was 2.5% vs 1.4%,
respectively. Results for transfemoral CAS and CEA
were both within the AHA recommended guidelines.219
In addition, the primary composite end point of the
study, which included any periprocedural stroke, death,
MI, or postprocedural ipsilateral stroke, was similar in

the two groups: 3.5% for transfemoral CAS and 3.6% for
CEA (P ¼ .96).
The recently completed ACT-1 Trial randomized 1453 patients 3:1 transfemoral CAS (1089) and CEA (364) in a noninferiority design.220 There was no difference in the
composite primary end point of death, stroke and MI between the transfemoral CAS group (3.8% 6 0.59% vs CEA
3.4% 6 0.98% (2.27% conﬁdence interval [CI], P ¼ .01 noninferior). Stroke and death risk was 2.9% for transfemoral CAS
and 1.7% for CEA (P ¼ .33), and major stroke and death was
identical in both groups at 0.6%. These results are considerably better than any other large study, including ACAS and
ACST, for both procedures. CREST and ACT-1 results
conﬁrm that CEA and CAS can be performed safely in carefully selected asymptomatic patients.
Similar to patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis,
concerns remain whether the latter data can be translated into “real-world” experience in asymptomatic patients. In a 2009 study of asymptomatic patients using
VQI data, transfemoral CAS was associated with a significantly higher risk of major complications compared
with CEA.221 The 30-day outcome analysis of CAS and
CEA in 2,818 patients revealed the combined risk of
death, stroke, or MI for 1450 CAS patients was 4.6% vs
1.97% for 1368 CEA patients. However, the recent VQI
report by Hicks et al showed transfemoral CAS was not
associated with a signiﬁcant difference in stroke and
death when compared with CEA among low-risk, propensity-matched patients (HR, 1.49; 95% CI, 0.76-2.90;
P ¼ .24).200
Transcarotid artery revascularization. The 30-day incidence of stroke and death in 485 asymptomatic patients
from the ROADSTER 1 and 2 trials was 1% and the 30-day
incidence of any stroke was 0.6%. Although these early
results are promising, further studies are needed to determine if these results are robust in larger populations.177,178 A
recent study of VQI data compared propensity score
matched asymptomatic patients and showed no difference in stroke and death risk between TCAR and transfemoral CAS (1.0% vs 1.5%; absolute difference, 0.42%
[95% CI, 1.30% to 0.47%]; RR, 0.71 [95% CI, 0.37 to1.39]; P ¼
.32).207 A more recent study propensity scored patients
from the VQI that had undergone either TCAR or CEA were
compared. Of this cohort 9435 were asymptomatic. There
was no difference in stroke and death between CEA and
TCAR (1.3% vs 1.4%; P ¼ .49), although TCAR was associated
with a lower incidence of MI and CNI, as well as a shorter
length of stay.208
Summary and recommendations
1. For neurologically symptomatic patients with stenosis
less than 50% or asymptomatic patients with stenosis
less than 60% diameter reduction, optimal medical
therapy is indicated. There are no data to support
transfemoral CAS, TCAR, or CEA in this patient group.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

45S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Table I. Revascularization
criteria

techniques

with

high-risk

Revascularization
techniques

High-risk criteria (based on clinical
judgement)

CEA

Neck irradiation
Previous CEA
Previous neck surgery
Tracheal stoma
Lesion above C2
Contralateral vocal cord injury
Hostile neck owing to obesity,
immobility, or kyphosis
Medical high risk

TCAR

TF-CAS

Heavily calciﬁed carotid lesion
Lesion within 5 cm of clavicle
CCA diameter <6 mm
Neck irradiation
Tracheal stoma
Hostile neck owing to obesity,
immobility or kyphosis
Medical high risk
Age > 75 years old
Heavily calciﬁed carotid stenosis
Complex bifurcation stenosis
>15 mm length
Tortuous ICA
Tortuous CCA
Type 3 or tortuous aortic arch
Heavy atherosclerotic burden of arch

CCA, Common carotid artery; CEA, carotid endarterectomy; ICA, internal carotid artery; TCAR, transcervical carotid stent; TF-CAS, transfemoral carotid stent.

2. Neurologically asymptomatic patients with a 70% or
greater diameter stenosis should be considered for
CEA, TCAR, or transfemoral CAS for reduction of
long-term risk of stroke, provided the patient has a
3- to 5-year life expectancy and perioperative stroke/
death rates can be 3% or less. Perhaps future models
to help estimate life expectancy based on calculating
various physiologic comorbidities such as cardiac, pulmonary, renal, malignancy, will be available in the
future. The determination for which technique to
use should be based on the presence or absence of
high risk criteria for CEA, TCAR, or transfemoral CAS
(Table I).
3. CEA is preferred over transfemoral CAS in symptomatic patients with 50% or greater stenosis who are
candidates for both procedures. TCAR is preferred
over transfemoral CAS but not CEA in symptomatic
patients with 50% or greater stenosis.
4. Transfemoral CAS is preferred over CEA in symptomatic patients with 50% or greater stenosis and
tracheal stoma, situation where local tissues are
scarred and ﬁbrotic from prior ipsilateral surgery or
external beam radiotherapy. CEA or TCAR may be
preferable in situations where ipsilateral tissue planes
remain relatively intact (Table II).
5. TCAR is preferred over CEA and transfemoral CAS in
symptomatic patients with 50% or greater stenosis
and lesion above C2 (Table II).

Table II. High-risk surgical risk for carotid endarterectomy
(CEA) based on the Medicare National Coverage Decision
(20.7) on PTA including carotid artery stenting (CAS)
Physiologic risks

Anatomic risks

Age $75

Prior head/neck
surgery or irradiation

Congestive heart failure

Spinal immobility

Left ventricular ejection
fraction #35%

Restenosis after CEA

Two diseased coronaries
with $70% stenosis

Surgically inaccessible lesion

Unstable angina

Laryngeal palsy; laryngectomy;
permanent contralateral CNI

MI within 6 weeks

Contralateral occlusion

Abnormal stress test

Severe tandem lesions

Need for open heart surgery
Need for major surgery
(including vascular)
Uncontrolled diabetes
Severe pulmonary disease
CNI, Cranial nerve injury; MI, myocardial infarction.

6. TCAR is preferred over CEA and transfemoral CAS in
high
surgical
risk
(both
anatomically
and
physiologically).
7. CAS is preferred over CEA in symptomatic patients
with 50% or greater stenosis and severe uncorrectable coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The
committee recognized the difﬁculty in clearly
deﬁning this group of individuals, both in symptomatology and risk assessment, and acknowledged the
potential increased role of aggressive medical management as primary therapy in this high-risk group
(Table II).
8. Neurologically asymptomatic patients deemed high
risk for CEA, TCAR, and transfemoral CAS should be
considered for primary medical management. Intervention can be considered in these patients only
with evidence that perioperative morbidity and mortality is less than 3%. CAS should not be performed
in these patients except as part of an ongoing clinical
trial.
9. There are insufﬁcient data to recommend transfemoral CAS as primary therapy for neurologically
asymptomatic patients with 70% to 99% diameter
stenosis. Data from CREST, ACT, and the VQI suggest
that in properly selected asymptomatic patients,
CAS may be equivalent to CEA in the hands of experienced interventionalists. Operators and institutions
performing CAS must exhibit expertise sufﬁcient to
meet the previously established AHA guidelines for
treatment of patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Speciﬁcally, the combined stroke and death
rate must be less than 3% to ensure beneﬁt for the
patient.

46S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

Table III. Local vs general anesthesia for carotid endarterectomy (CEA)
Study

Patient population/comparison

Design

Primary outcome was proportion of patients with stroke/MI/death between
randomization & 30 days after surgery.
Composite end point was 4.8% (general)
vs 4.5% (local).

9 RCTs (812 procedures)
Rerkasem
47 Nonrandomized
et al, 2009244
(Cochrane Database)
studies (24,181 procedures)

RCTs
No evidence of reduction in operative
strokes (2.7% local vs 2.7% general; P ¼
.99)
Nonrandomized studies:
Local associated with signiﬁcant reduction in:
Risk of early 30-day perioperative stroke
(38 studies)
Stroke/death (27 studies)
Death (42 studies)
MI (27 studies)
To be noted, methodologic quality of
nonrandomized studies were felt to be
questionable; concluded insufﬁcient evidence from RCT to indicate superiority of
local over general.

Systematic review of
RCTs and
nonrandomized
studies

14 RCTs (4596 procedures)
Vaniyapong
et al, 2013236
(Cochrane Database)

No statistically difference in:
30-day stroke rate (3.2% local vs 3.5%
general)
30-day stroke/death (3.6% local vs 4.2%
general)
Concluded stroke/death rates were
similar

Systematic review of
RCT

Aridi et al, 2018238

3526 patients
1753 (general)
1773 (local)

Outcome
RCT

GALA Trial
Collaborative
Group, 2008228

Retrospective analysis of VQI Database
2003-2017 (75,319 procures)

Compared real-world outcome of CEA
under local vs general.
No difference in perioperative death/
stroke.
CEA with general was associated with:
4 times the odds of acute CHF (OR, 3.92,
95% CI, 1.84-8.34; P < .001)
1.5 times the odds of hemodynamic
instability (OR, 1.54; 95% CI, 1.44-1.66; P <
.001)
Noted differences were clinically irrelevant, as overall risk of cardiac adverse
events were low.
Approach to choosing anesthesia should
be based on patient risk factors, preference and team experience.

CI, Conﬁdence interval; MI, myocardial infarction; OR, odds ratio; RCT, randomized controlled trial; VQI, Vascular Quality Initiative.

CEA TECHNICAL CONSIDERATIONS
Local vs general anesthesia
An advantage of performing CEA on awake patients
under local/regional anesthesia is the ability to perform
an accurate neurologic assessment during the operation
and in the immediate postoperative period. Local/
regional anesthesia also attenuates the hemodynamic
swings both during induction of general anesthesia
and upon awakening. It has been postulated that local
anesthesia also has the beneﬁt of increasing systemic
blood pressure that may occur after carotid clamping,222
helping to maintain cerebral perfusion. However, opponents of CEA under local anesthesia highlight that pain

or anxiety during the procedure may increase stress,
potentially resulting in increased risk of perioperative
MI. However, this stress can be minimized by premedication and intraoperative sedation/analgesia. The patient’s
heightened stress level may also impact the performance of some surgeons. In addition, the ability to train
fellows or residents in performing CEA may also be negatively impacted by use of local/regional anesthesia. This
approach may also result in needle damage to important structures such as the vertebral artery during deep
cervical plexus block, phrenic nerve block, or may result
in intravascular injection with associated hematoma.223
Therefore, many clinics use only superﬁcial cervical
plexus block for CEA.224 It has also been suggested that

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

47S

Volume 75, Number 1S

general anesthetics decrease the cerebral metabolic rate
and may therefore have a neuroprotective effect in the
presence of cerebral ischemia.225
Over the past several decades, a number of publications have shown conﬂicting results about anesthesia,
some favoring general anesthesia, while others favor
local anesthesia. Halm et al226 conducted a retrospective
analysis of 1972 patients undergoing CEA by 64 surgeons
in six New York hospitals in 1997 and 1998. Death or
stroke occurred in 2.3% in patients without carotid symptoms, 2.9% among those with carotid TIA, and 7.1%
among patients with perioperative stroke. Two surgical
techniques reduced the adjusted odds of death or
stroke: Use of local anesthesia (OR, 0.3; 95% CI, 0.160.58) and patch closure (OR, 0.43; 95% CI, 0.24-0.76).
Stoner et al227 also reported outcome of 13,622 CEAs performed during a 3-year period at 123 Veteran’s Administration and 13 private academic medical centers. The
combined risk of stroke, death, or cardiac event was 4%
and stroke/death risk was 3.4%. Regional anesthesia
was used in 18% of cases with the following relative risk
reductions: stroke 17%, death 24%, cardiac events 33%,
and the composite outcome 31% (OR, 0.69; P ¼ .008).
The authors concluded that the use of regional anesthesia signiﬁcantly reduced perioperative complications,
however did admit the low use of regional anesthesia
may represent selection bias.
Results from randomized controlled trials, metaanalyses, and registries. One of the strongest Level 1 evidence sources on anesthesia is the General Anesthesia
vs Local Anesthesia for Carotid Surgery (GALA) trial.228
The two groups did not show any signiﬁcant differences regarding primary outcome (stroke, MI, or death)
(Table III), length of hospital stay, and quality of life.
Additionally, there was no difference in the primary
outcome in the subgroup analysis of age and baseline
surgical risk. The primary outcome rate for patients over
the age of 75 was 5.3% for general anesthesia vs 4.6% for
local anesthesia (P ¼ .741). This is in contrast with 4.5% for
local anesthesia vs 4.6% for general anesthesia for patients younger than the age of 75 (P ¼ .741). The primary
outcome rate for patients with high surgical risk was
4.6% for local anesthesia vs 4.1% for general anesthesia, in
contrast with 4.2% for local anesthesia vs 4.7% for general
anesthesia in patients with low surgical risk (P ¼ .933).
These results suggest that local anesthesia may be more
effective than general anesthesia for patients with
contralateral carotid occlusion. The primary outcome for
stroke, MI, or death at 30 days was 5% for local anesthesia
vs 10% for general anesthesia in patients with contralateral carotid occlusion (OR, 0.47; P ¼ .098) in contrast with
4.3% for general anesthesia and 4.5% for local anesthesia
in patients without contralateral carotid occlusion.
A Cochrane Review of the several randomized trials229-235 looking at anesthesia showed no evidence of
decreased perioperative strokes (2.7% for local

anesthesia vs 2.7% for general anesthesia; P ¼ .99). Use
of local anesthesia was also associated with a signiﬁcant
reduction in risk of 30-day perioperative local hemorrhage (OR, 0.3; 95% CI, 0.12-0.77; Table III).
A more recent Cochrane Review by Vaniyapong et al236
reported results comparing local vs general anesthesia
for CEA from 14 RCTs, concluding that risk of stroke or
death within 30 days of surgery did not differ signiﬁcantly
between the two anesthetic techniques (Table III).
More recently, Hye et al237 reported on anesthesia technique and risk of MI after CEA in the CREST trial. Between
2000 and 2008, 1151 patients underwent CEA (anesthetic
type available for 1149 patients), and 1123 patients underwent CAS within 30 days of randomization in CREST.
CEA patients were categorized by anesthetic type
(regional anesthesia vs general anesthesia). The results
showed that CREST patients undergoing CEA with
regional anesthesia had a similar risk of periprocedural
MI as those undergoing CAS, whereas the risk for CEA
with general anesthesia was twice that of patients undergoing CAS.
Dakour Aridi et al238 used VQI data for 2003 to 2017 to
compare real-world outcomes of CEA under regional or
local anesthesia vs general anesthesia. A retrospective
analysis showed that compared with patients undergoing CEA with general anesthesia, the 6684 (9%) CEA
cases of 75,319 that were were performed under local
anesthesia/regional anesthesia were more likely to have
a higher American Society of Anesthesiologists class
(class 3-5, 94% vs 93%) and more likely to be older (median age, 72 years vs 71 years) (all P < .001). CEA with general anesthesia had higher crude rates of in-hospital
cardiac events including arrhythmia (1.6% vs 1.2%; P <
.001), hemodynamic instability (27% vs 20%; P < .001),
MI (0.5% vs 0.2%; P ¼ .01), and acute congestive heart failure (0.5% vs 0.2%; P < .001) compared with CEA with
local or regional anesthesia. However, there was no difference in perioperative death or stroke between the two
groups. CEA with general anesthesia was associated
with four times the odds of acute CHF (OR, 3.92; 95%
CI, 1.84-8.34; P < .001), 1.5 times the odds of hemodynamic instability (OR, 1.54; 95% CI, 1.44-1.66; P < .001),
and twice the odds of in-hospital MI (OR, 1.95; 95% CI,
1.06-3.59; P ¼ .03). Patients who underwent CEA with
general anesthesia had 1.8 times the odds of staying in
the hospital for more than 1 day (OR, 1.80; 95% CI, 1.671.93; P < .001). These authors noted that differences
were clinically irrelevant, because the overall risk of cardiac adverse events after CEA was low. Others felt that
the approach to choosing anesthesia for CEA should be
based on patient risk factors and preference, and by
the team’s experience.239-241
Local and regional anesthesia and the use of antiplatelet agents. Because many patients who undergo
CEA take aspirin antiplatelet monotherapy and some
also take dual antiplatelet therapy, there is some concern

48S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

about hematoma formation. In a systemic review of 10,081
patients in 69 studies, the combined superﬁcial and deep
cervical plexus blockade was associated with a signiﬁcantly higher risk of major complications (OR, 2.13; P ¼
.006), when compared with superﬁcial/intermediate
blockade.224 Most of the major complications reported
were inadvertent intravascular injection and respiratory
distress or failure secondary to phrenic nerve and/or
recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis. In most scenarios, the
general guidelines recommend cessation of antiplatelet
therapy, speciﬁcally clopidogrel, whenever possible.242
Presently, there are no published guidelines regarding
whether it is safe to perform deep cervical plexus
blockade in CEA patients who are taking dual antiplatelet
therapy.243 Therefore, because many symptomatic patients will undergo CEA while on dual antiplatelet therapy,
surgeons and anesthesiologists who perform this procedure must consider the risks and beneﬁts of doing surgery
under regional/local anesthesia while the patient is on
perioperative antiplatelet therapy. It is generally not recommended to stop antiplatelet therapy and/or delay
CEA for the usual recommendation of 7 days, as this may
increase the risk of early recurrent embolic stroke.
Summary and recommendations. The choice of anesthesia local/regional vs general anesthesia is equivalent
and should be left to surgeon’s/anesthesiologist’s preference because both techniques have similar outcomes
and should be based on availability of expertise for effective block (Table III).
Decision for longitudinal versus transverse incision for
CEA
Although the traditional approach to the carotid bifurcation is through a longitudinal incision just medial to the
anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, a
transverse incision can be performed. However, a key
concern with a transverse incision is the cephalad extent
of the atherosclerotic disease. As shown by Ascher
et al,245 if one were to undertake the transverse incision,
the bifurcation should be analyzed by duplex ultrasound
examination not only before surgery, but also at the time
of surgery. This allows the surgeon to identify where the
bifurcation is, as well as to conﬁrm the extent of disease.245
Other investigators have demonstrated that transverse incisions give better cosmetic results with fewer cranial nerve
injuries.246 However, Marcucci et al247 reported that it is
more difﬁcult to shunt using the transverse incision, and
saw no difference in the presence of cranial nerve injuries.
Summary and recommendations. In the absence of
Level 1 data, a transverse crease incision may give the
best cosmetic results if there is a focal stenosis with a
relatively low bifurcation.
Anticoagulation and protamine reversal
In the last decade, numerous reports have documented
increased use of anticoagulation reversal with protamine

sulfate after CEA. The Vascular Study Group of Northern
New England ﬁrst noted safe use of protamine to reduce
bleeding complication without increased stroke risk.248 In
2013, the same group noted an increase in anticoagulation
reversal among their surgeon cohort with decreased incidence of bleeding and no difference with respect to MI or
stroke risk.249 A meta-analysis by Kakisis et al250 reported
a 64% risk reduction in wound hematoma without an increase in stroke risk with anticoagulation reversal. These results were corroborated by a contemporaneous metaanalysis by Newhall et al,251 showing similar favorable ﬁndings for use of protamine. Although there is no new Level 1
evidence in this area, the abundance of literature supports
reasonable use of anticoagulation reversal at the end of
CEA without an increase in perioperative stroke risk.
Summary and recommendations. In patients undergoing CEA, we suggest use of protamine sulfate
(depending on heparin dose) to reduce risk of postoperative bleeding without an increase in other perioperative
risk.
Intraoperative cerebral monitoring
The purpose of intraoperative cerebral monitoring is
to assess the need for temporary arterial shunting during the ischemic portion of the procedure while the carotid artery ﬂow is interrupted and to attempt to
predict those patients who are most likely to suffer an
ischemic postoperative event. Options for cerebral
perfusion assessment include awake testing with
local/regional anesthesia, somatosensory evoked potentials, measurement of stump pressures, TCD and
infrared spectroscopy. Although numerous reports
advocate for the overall effectiveness of each technique,59 a comprehensive review in 2011 by AbuRahma
et al,252 and review of the recent literature has not identiﬁed a predominant technique to predict adequate
cerebral perfusion.253-255
Summary and recommendations. We suggest judicious use of cerebral monitoring based on practitioner
expertise and institutional standards, particularly if no
routine shunting is used.
Shunting: routine versus selective
Based on the current literature, the use of shunting during CEA has not evolved. For many years, use of arterial
shunts was considered in three broad categories: Always,
never, or selective use with multiple alternatives available
to provide temporary ﬂow during periods of carotid
clamping. These were mainly based on the preference
and training of the operating surgeon. AbuRahma
et al252 conducted a comprehensive review of available
approaches to cerebral monitoring and intraoperative
shunting methods and found no discernible advantage
with any technique. Since then, large series have also
failed to report deﬁnitive differences in outcomes with
any particular strategy.255-258 In the most recent reported

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

49S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Table IV. Patch closure vs primary closure for carotid endarterectomy (CEA) (randomized trials)
Patient population/
comparison

Study

No. patch/primary
comparison

Early outcome
Perioperative
stroke/death (%),
patch/primary

Late outcome

OR (95% CI)

$50% restenosis
rate (%), patch/
primary

OR (95% CI)

Follow-up, mo

Design

De
Vleeschauwer
et al, 1987272

90/84

0/0

———

1.1/10.7

0.1 (0.0-0.8)

12

RCT

Eikelboom et al,
1988273

66/60

4.5/6.7

0.67 (0.15-3.06)

11.9/27.4

0.37 (0.16-0.89)

60

RCT

Lord et al,
1989278

90/50

1.1/6.0b

0.2 (0.0-1.7)

———a

———a

Hospital discharge

RCT

Ranaboldo et al,
1993283

96/91

3.2/7.7

0.41 (0.11-1.45)

5.5/16.3

0.33 (0.14-0.77)

12

RCT

Myers et al,
1994280

46/48

0/2.1

0.14 (0.00-7.12)

3.2/3.1

1.03 (0.14-7.51)

54

RCT

Katz et al,
1994276

43/44

2.3/4.5

0.52 (0.05-5.11)

0/5.9

0.14 (0.01-1.33)

29

RCT

AbuRahma
et al, 1996261

264/135

2.3/6.7

0.3 (0.10-0.88)

5.3/33.3

0.11 (0.06-0.19)

30

RCT

AbuRahma
et al, 1999264

74/74

0/4.0

———a

7/45

0.09 (0.03-0.25)

29

RCT

753/329
CEA Arm of CREST

1.2/4.0

0.35 (0.15-0.82)

3.1/10.7c

0.27 (0.15-0.48)

24

RCT

Malas et al,
2015290

a

CI, Conﬁdence interval; OR, odds ratio; RCT, randomized controlled trial.
a
Not available or not applicable.
b
Only 30-day risk of ipsilateral stroke only.
c
For $70%.

series, Wiske et al257 reviewed 28,457 CEAs in the VQI
from 2012 to 2015 and found no difference in inhospital death or stroke among the different types of cerebral monitoring and shunt strategies. However, the authors did report shorter length of stay among patients
undergoing awake assessment with local anesthesia.257
Summary and recommendations. Owing to the
paucity of suitable data on when to shunt or best shunting methods during CEA, speciﬁc recommendations
cannot be provided. The committee suggests consideration of arterial shunting during CEA based on practitioner expertise and institutional standards.
Carotid closure: primary versus patching
The type of closure after CEA, whether primary closure
vs patching remains somewhat controversial.259-285 However, most authorities agree that in a small carotid artery
(#4 mm), particularly in women, and in the presence of
technical difﬁculties at the ICA end of the arteriotomy,
patching may decrease the risk of future restenosis. It
has been suggested that a ﬂow characteristic of patched
arteries may be superior to those of primary closure for
minimizing
early
perioperative
carotid
thrombosis.283,286,287 Other investigators have attributed this

improvement to widening the artery with a corresponding reduction of intimal hyperplasia.288 Therefore, many
suggest that CEA with patch angioplasty decreases the
chance of technical errors. It has been shown to be
more effective than primary closure in multiple clinical
trials in decreasing the risk of perioperative
carotid thrombosis, perioperative stroke and late restenosis.261-264,267,268,271-273,276,278,289 Others believe that inclusion of a patch prolongs the operative, shunt and
clamping time and makes the procedure more technically demanding and that it may also be unnecessary
in some patients.270
Results from randomized trials. Several randomized
controlled trials published over the past two decades
compared CEA with primary closure vs patch
angioplasty.261,263,264,266,267,271-273,276,278,280,283 As noted in
Table IV, most studies showed that patch closure was
superior to primary closure in all perioperative parameters including risk of perioperative stroke, stroke/death,
and restenosis.
In contrast, Al-Rawi et al266 reported results supporting
primary (direct) closure. In this study, the 30-day perioperative stroke risk was similar for microscopic patch angioplasty (3.9%) and direct arteriotomy closure (2.9%). In

50S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

Table V. Meta-analysis of primary closure vs carotid endarterectomy (CEA) with patching
Systemic/Meta-analysis

Patient
Population/Comparison

Outcome

Design

7 RCTs
1281 CEAs (1193 patients)

Patch angioplasty associated with reduction in:
Ipsilateral stroke (1.6% vs 4.8%; P ¼ .001)
Any stroke (1.6% v 4.5%; P ¼ .004)
Stroke/death (2.5% vs 6.1%; P ¼ .07)
Arterial occlusion (0.5% vs 3.6%; P ¼ .0001)
Long-term follow-up reduction in:
Ipsilateral stroke (1.6% vs 4.8%; P ¼ .001)
Any stroke (1.9% vs 5.9%; P ¼ .0009)
Stroke/death (14.6% vs 24%; P ¼ .004)
Late post-CEA stenosis (4.8% vs 18.6%; P <
.0001)

Systemic analysis
of RCTs

Rerkasem et al, 2011293

10 RCTs
2157 CEAs (1967 patients)

Routine patching associated with reduction in:
Ipsilateral stroke (1.5% vs 4.5%; P ¼ .001)
Carotid thrombosis (0.5% vs 3.1%; P < .0011)
Return to operating room (3.1% vs 1.1%; P ¼ .01)
Long-term outcome reduction in:
Ipsilateral stroke (1.6% vs 4.8%; P ¼ .001)
Any stroke (1.4% vs 4.6%; P ¼ .002)
Rate of restenosis (4.3% vs 13.8%; P < .01)

Systemic analysis
of RCTs

Cao et al, 2001294

5 RCTs
2,590 CEAs (2,465 patients)

ECEA vs CCEA:
Perioperative stroke/death rate of 2.1% (1.7% vs
2.6%)
No signiﬁcant differences in rate of early carotid
thrombosis, MI and local complications:
Neck hematoma (4.2% vs 5.5%)
CNI (3.8% vs 5.6%)
No signiﬁcant difference in restenosis at later
follow-up (1-69 months) or stroke rate (2.0% vs
2.4%)

RCS

Schneider et al, 2015295

2365 ECEAs
17155 CCEAs

ECEA vs CCEA:
Perioperative ipsilateral neuro events (1.3% vs
1.2%; P ¼ .86)
Any ipsilateral stroke (0.8% vs 0.9%; P ¼ .84)
Return to the operating room for bleeding (1.4%
vs 0.8%; P ¼ .002)
1-year freedom from recurrent stenosis >50%
(89% vs 94%; P < .001)
1-year freedom from reoperation (99.5% vs
99.6%; P ¼ .67)

VQI

Paraskevas et al, 2018296

25 studies (20 Observational
Studies, 5 RCTs)
49,500 CEAs (33,251
CCEAs/16,249 ECEAs)

RCT Data
CCEA, ECEA did not confer signiﬁcant reductions in 30 day perioperative stroke, death,
stroke/death, stroke/death/MI or neck
hematoma
ECEA was associated with reduced late restenosis (OR, 0.40; P ¼ .001)
OS Data
ECEA (compared with CCEA) associated with
signiﬁcant reduction in:
30-day perioperative stroke (OR, 0.58; P < .0001)
Death (OR, 0.46; P < .0001)
Stroke/death (OR, 0.52; P < .0001)
Stroke/death/MI (OR, 0.50; P < .0001)
Late restenosis (OR, 0.49; P ¼ .032)
RCT and OS Data Combined
ECEA (compared with CCEA) associated with
signiﬁcant reduction in:
30-day death (OR, 0.55; P < .0001)
Stroke (OR, 0.63; P ¼ .004)
Stroke/death (OR, 0.58; P < .0001)
Late restenosis (OR, 0.45; P ¼ .004)
ECEA vs patched CCEA: there were no differences between the two procedures, except for
neck hematoma, where ECEA was better than
patched CCEA

RCS and
observation
studies

269,292,a

Bond et al, 2004
(Cochrane review)

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

51S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Table V. Continued.
Systemic/Meta-analysis
297

Huizing et al, 2019

Patient
Population/Comparison
29 studies (20 Observational
Studies, 9 RCTs)
13,219 CEAs

Outcome
PRC group had higher overall 30-day stroke risk
(OR, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.2-2.9)
Difference was not statistically signiﬁcant
anymore, after exclusion of nonrandomized
studies (OR, 1.8; 95% CI, 0.8-3.9)
Restenosis rate was higher after PRC (OR, 2.2;
95% CI, 1.4-3.4)
Concluded that compared with PRC, perioperative stroke rate was lower after patch closure
Restenosis rate was higher after PRC, although
the clinical signiﬁcance of this ﬁnding remained
unclear in terms of long-term stroke prevention
To be noted, many of these primary closures
were selected in relatively larger arteries

Design
RCS and
observation
studies

CCEA, Conventional carotid endarterectomy; CI, conﬁdence interval; CNI, cranial nerve injury; ECEA, eversion carotid endarterectomy; MI, myocardial
infarction; OR, odds ratio; OS, overall survival; PRC, primary closure; RCT, randomized controlled trial; VQI, Vascular Quality Initiative.
a
This is meta-analysis of several randomized trials.

CREST, patching was also associated with a signiﬁcant
reduction in 30-day risk of perioperative stroke (1.2% vs
4% for no patching; P ¼ .02), reduction in perioperative
stroke and death (1.2% vs 4%; P ¼ .02).290 At 4 years,
patching was associated with a signiﬁcant reduction in
late stroke (3.5% vs 6.6% for no patching; P ¼ .047), and
stroke and death (3.5% vs 6.6%; P ¼ .047). Restenosis
risk was also signiﬁcantly higher at 2 years in patients
with no patching (10.7% vs 3.1% with patching) (Table IV).
Recently, Edenﬁeld et al291 reported on the long-term
impact of the Vascular Study Group of New England carotid patch quality initiative (14,636 CEA), showing that
patch use increased from 71% to 91% (P < .001) between
2003 and 2014. The rate of return to the operating room
for bleeding (P < .001), 1-year restenosis or occlusion (P <
.001), and 1-year stroke or TIA (P < .003) were statistically
lower with patch closure. High-volume surgeons
increased patch use from 50% to 90%, and decreased
their 1-year stroke or TIA risk from 4.9% to 1.9% (P <
.001) and restenosis risk from 9.0% to 1.2%. The VSGNE
carotid patch quality initiative successfully increased
CEA patch closure rates.
Meta-analysis of primary closure vs CEA with patching. A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials
showed patching was superior to primary closure in
lowering risk of perioperative stroke, perioperative stroke
and death, late restenosis292,298,299 (Table V).
Role of selective patching. Selective patching has
been proposed for certain patients such as those with
tortuous or exceptionally small carotid artery. Although
there is no Level 1 evidence supporting selective patching
vs primary closure or routine patching. Golledge et al300
reported data for patients with selective patching of carotid arteries that were less than 5.5 to 6.0 mm. They
found no signiﬁcant difference in stroke or restenosis and
advocated selective patching of carotid arteries. Cikrit

et al301 reported similar results, but patching was selectively applied to small arteries.
Recently, Maertens et al302 reported complication rates
after CEA with selective patch angioplasty and primary
closure. Primary closure was performed when the carotid
artery had a diameter of greater than 5 mm or there was
a high carotid bifurcation, and when the contralateral carotid artery was occluded. The study concluded that primary closure was equivalent to patch angioplasty when
used in selected patients.
Avgerinos et al303 compared perioperative and longterm outcomes of different CEA closure techniques in a
large single-center retrospective study (1737 CEA). Onehalf of the patients had patch closure, with the rest
evenly distributed between eversion closure and primary
longitudinal arteriotomy closure. Although more men
had primary closure, other demographic characteristics
and baseline symptoms were similar among groups,
and risk of stroke and death were also similar.
Patch material during CEA. CEA patch material is
also controversial with supporters for both vein patches
(saphenous or neck veins) and synthetic patches (polytetraﬂuoroethylene [PTFE], Dacron) or pericardial patches.
Data from randomized controlled trials suggest that
the type of patch, whether vein or prosthetics, has no effect on short or long-term outcomes.269,271,281,304 Bond
et al304 reported from the Cochrane Database on several
randomized clinical trials,259,260,263,274,278,281,282,305,306 but
found insufﬁcient data to enable a deﬁnitive conclusion
(Table VI) about optimal patch material because of the
small number of adverse events. In the early period, carotid patching was performed using conventional
Dacron or PTFE patches; however, a main criticism of the
conventional PTFE patch was a prolonged hemostasis
time. Thus, a modiﬁed PTFE patch was introduced
(ACUSEAL, W. L. Gore & Associates, Flagstaff, Ariz), which

52S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

claims to have better hemostatic properties. Similarly, a
new ultrathin Dacron graft patch was introduced to
minimize thrombosis (Finesse; Boston Scientiﬁc, Natick,
Mass). AbuRahma et al259,260 reported the results of a
randomized trial comparing conventional PTFE and
conventional collagen-impregnated Hemashield in CEA.
Perioperative stroke risk was 0% for PTFE vs 7% for
Dacron graft (P ¼ .02). There were ﬁve cases of perioperative carotid thrombosis in the Dacron group vs none
in the PTFE group, and restenosis risk was also higher in
patients with Dacron graft (P # .001). However, PTFE had
longer intraoperative needle hole bleeding time. Subsequently, AbuRahma et al265 reported the results of randomized trial of 200 CEA patients, 100 ACUSEAL vs 100
Finesse Dacron patching, in which the perioperative
stroke risk (2%) and stroke-free survival rate were comparable for both patches. However, freedom from 70% or
greater restenosis at 1, 2, and 3 years for ACUSEAL was
98%, 96%, and 89% vs 92%, 85%, and 79%, respectively,
for the Finesse patch (P ¼ .04).
Satisfactory outcomes were also reported using pericardial patching after CEA by Biasi et al.307 Stone et al308 reported results of prospective randomized trial of
ACUSEAL vs Vascu-Guard patching in 200 CEA and
they concluded that there was no signiﬁcant differences
in perioperative/late neurologic events and late restenosis in the two groups.
Oldenburg et al309 reported on durability of CEA with a
bovine pericardial patch in a retrospective analysis of 874
consecutive patients who underwent CEA at the Mayo
Clinic in Florida. A bovine pericardial patch was used in
680 patients (group I) and other CEA techniques were
used in 194 patients (group II) (standard without patch,
78; standard with vein patch, 16; standard with Dacron,
74; and other techniques: bypasses, 26). There were no
signiﬁcant differences in 30-day mortality or morbidity
between the 2 groups, except that group I had a lower
30-day stroke risk (0.1%) than group II (1.5%; P ¼ .03).
Ten-year freedom from stroke/TIA and freedom from
restenosis was also similar between groups. The authors
concluded that CEA with bovine pericardium angioplasty had excellent early and late outcomes with minimal morbidity and mortality.
More recently, Texakalidis et al310 reported the results of a
meta-analysis of 18 randomized trials comparing bovine
pericardium and other patch materials for CEA, noting
similar ﬁndings when comparing synthetic patches vs
bovine pericardium. As noted in Table VI, the outcome
for various patches in CEA were also somewhat similar.
Carotid eversion: eversion CEA versus traditional
endarterectomy
Eversion CEA (ECEA) is a technique that can be used for
most carotid bifurcation disease. It may be best indicated in patients with short bifurcation lesions, those
with elongated ICAs (coils and kinks) and in cases with

high bifurcations. The most commonly-accepted technique is that the ICA is transected while removing the
bulk of the plaque from the CCA as the ICA is transected.
This is followed by everting the distal media or the
external elastic lamina and the adventitia around the
core of atherosclerotic plaque until the end point is
reached. Visualization of the end point is mandatory
and in about 25% of cases, the ICA can be shortened as
it is reanastomosed to the CCA.294,311-318
Multiple studies have documented the numerous advantages of this technique. These include no risk of prosthetic infection, less operative time and cerebral
ischemic clamp time than patched CEA, preservation
of the anatomic and hemodynamic geometry of the
ICA/CCA, and possibly a decreased risk of restenosis.319
Although early studies reported decreased restenosis
risk, in meta-analyses it has been shown to be equivalent
to traditional patch angioplasty, and both patched and
eversion endarterectomies are superior to primary arterial closure. Patients with small internal carotid arteries,
such as women, may beneﬁt from eversion or patched
endarterectomy.320 Disadvantages of this approach are
that it may be difﬁcult to evaluate the end point in extensive and long ICA disease. If shunting in ECEA is necessary,
shunts
are
usually
inserted
after
the
endarterectomy is performed. This technique can be
very useful in patients who have carotid kinks or coils
by shortening the ICA.
Several randomized trials compared conventional CEA
(CCEA) with eversion,311-317 and all provided Level 1 evidence conﬁrming the equivalence of ECEA and CCEA
with patching in regard to perioperative results. The
largest Level 1 study was a multicenter randomized trial
comparing CCEA and eversion came from the EVERsion
CEA vs Standard Trial (EVEREST) (1353 patients).314,315 Risk
of 30-day perioperative major stroke/death was similar
for both groups at 1.3%. The risk of 30-day all stroke was
also similar: 1.9% for CCEA vs 2.2% for ECEA (P ¼ .80).
At 33 months, carotid restenosis rate was noted in 2.8%
with eversion, 7.9% for primary closure and 1.5% for CEA
with patching. The cumulative, 4-year postcarotid stenosis was lower in the ECEA comparted to primary closure:
3.6% vs 9.2% (P ¼ .01). However, the difference in postCEA stenosis was comparable when eversion was
compared with patching (2.8% for eversion vs 1.5% for
patching). There was no signiﬁcant difference in cumulative risk of ipsilateral stroke (2.2% for standard vs 3.9% for
eversion; P ¼ .2) or death (13.1% vs 12.7%). Of 18 variables
that were analyzed for their effect on risk of post-CEA stenosis, ECEA (HR, 0.3; P ¼ .0004) and patch CEA (HR, 0.2;
P ¼ .002) were negative predictors (protective) of postCEA stenosis. Also, in the CREST trial, patients undergoing eversion endarterectomy had lower risk of cranial
nerve injuries than those with patched CEA.
Observational studies also show somewhat similar results. Shah et al321 reported data on one of the largest

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

53S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Table VI. Comparing various patch closures after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) (randomized trials)
Study

Comparison

Early outcome

Late outcome

No.

Perioperative stroke/death (%)

OR (95% CI)

$50% restenosis/occlusion rate (%) at 1 year

OR (95% CI)

Author/Year/Ref

Dacron/vein patch

Dacron/vein patch

Dacron/vein patch

Dacron/vein patch

Dacron/vein patch

Design

Katz et al, 1996306

107/100

2.8/1.0

2.9 (0.3->10)

———a

———a

RCT

———a

———a

RCT

Hayes et al, 2001274

135/136

2.2/2.2

1.0 (0.2-5.1)

282

O’Hara et al, 2002

94/101

3.2/3.9

0.8 (0.2-3.7)

6.3/4.3

1.0 (0.3-3.1)

RCT

Naylor et al, 2004281

136/137

2.2/3.7

0.6 (0.14-2.54)

12.4/7.2

1.8 (0.8-4.1)

RCT

ePTFE/vein patch

ePTFE/vein patch

47/43

2.1/0

———a

Gonzalez-Fajardo et al, 1994

39/35

5.1/0

199 (0.0->10)

AbuRahma et al, 1998263

134/130

2.2/2.3

1.0 (0.2-4.9)

Lord et al, 1989278
305

Dacron/ePTFE patch

ePTFE/vein patch
———a

Dacron/ePTFE patch

———a

RCT

4/0

19.7 (0.0->50)

RCT

2.2/8.5

0.2 (0.1-0.9)

RCT

Dacron/ePTFE patch

AbuRahma et al, 2002260,b

100/100

7/0

———a

12/2

6.68 (1.46-30.69)

RCT

AbuRahma et al, 2008265,c

100/100

2/2

1.0 (0.14-7.24)

4/0

———a

RCT

3/1d

———a

0/2e

———a

RCT

ACUSEAL (PTFE)/Vascu-Guard patch
Stone et al, 2014308

100/100

Systemic/meta-analysis

Patch material during CEA

Bond et al, 2004304,c (Cochrane review)

1280 patients
7 RCTs

No obvious differences in perioperative stroke/death rate using synthetic or vein patch
No differences in long-term follow-up
Risk of major arterial complications (patch infection/rupture) <1% on vein and synthetic patches
3 of 348 (0.9%) had vein patch blowout, 1 fatal
2 of 359 (0.6%) had synthetic patch rupture, 1 fatal

Texakalidis et al, 2018310

3,234 patients
18 studies

30 day stroke, MI, wound infection, death, cranial nerve palsy, carotid artery
thrombosis and death, long-term stroke and restenosis were similar between
venous vs synthetic patch
No differences in 30-day stroke, death, TIA, carotid artery thrombosis and
long-term restenosis were detected between Dacron and synthetic polytetraﬂuoroethylene patch

CI, Conﬁdence interval; ePTFE, expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene; MI, myocardial infarction; OR, odds ratio; RCT, randomized controlled trial; TIA,
transient ischemic attack.
a
Not available or not applicable.
b
Conventional PTFE vs collagen-impregnated Dacron patch (Hemashield).
c
ACUSEAL vs Finesse (Ultrathin Dacron) (PTFE).
d
Transient ischemic attack/stroke.
e
Restenosis of $70%.

samples of eversion endarterectomy in which 1855 patients underwent 2244 CEAs using the eversion technique. In this study, 410 patients had 474 CEAs by the
standard technique. Operative mortality risk was 1% on
the eversion group vs 2.2% in the standard group and
incidence of perioperative stroke was 2.3% in standard
CEA vs 0.8% for ECEA. Risk of 60% or greater post-CEA
stenosis was 0.3% for ECEA vs 1.1% for standard CEA.
Schneider et al295 compared results with ECEA (2365) vs
CCEA (17,155) using data from the VQI and the MidAmerica Vascular Study Group. compared with eversion,
CCEA was more often performed with general anesthesia (92% vs 80%; P < .001) and with a shunt (59% vs
24%; P < .001). Perioperative ipsilateral neuro events
(ECEA, 1.3% vs CCEA, 1.2%; P ¼ .86) and any ipsilateral
stroke (ECEA, 0.8% vs CCEA, 0.9%; P ¼ .84) were similar
in the two groups. ECEA tended to take less time (median 99 minutes vs 114 minutes; P < .001). However,
ECEA was more like to require a return to the operating
room for bleeding (1.4% vs 0.8%; P ¼ .002). Estimated survival and freedom from stroke at 1 year were similar, but
the 1-year freedom from recurrent stenosis of greater
than 50% was lower for ECEA (89% vs 94%; P < .001).

The authors concluded that ECEA and CCEA appear to
yield similar outcomes.
Recently, Deser et al322 conducted a study to determine
whether there is a difference in postoperative blood pressure changes, stroke risk and postoperative complications after CCEA and ECEA. Mean operative and
cross-clamping time were shorter for ECEA (72 6 14.3 minutes vs 115 6 17.4 minutes; P < .001) and (22 6 7.7 vs 34 6
6.3; P < .001), respectively. No signiﬁcant difference was
noted between the groups in incidence of perioperative
stroke (P ¼ .501) or postoperative blood pressure difference at the 6th hour or 24th hour after surgery.
Meta-analysis of standard CEA vs ECEA. A Cochrane
Review316 of ﬁve randomized trials311-315,317 of 2465 patients (2590 arteries) also provided Level 1 evidence. In
this review (except for the EVEREST trial in which where
the ECEA was compared with both patch angioplasty
and primary closure), only CEA with patch angioplasty
was considered for comparison to ECEA. Results showed
an overall risk of any perioperative stroke/death of 2.1%
(1.7% for ECEA vs 2.6% for CCEA) with no signiﬁcant difference between techniques. Nor were there signiﬁcant
differences risk of early carotid thrombosis, MI, and local

54S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

complications (neck hematoma 4.2% for eversion vs 5.5%
for CCEA; CNI 3.8% for eversion vs 5.6% for CCEA). Additionally, no differences were noted in restenosis at followup ranging from 1 to 69 months nor did stroke risk during
follow-up differ between groups (2% vs 2.4%). A metaanalysis of randomized trials also reported that ECEA
was associated with signiﬁcantly higher incidence of
post-CEA hypertension (OR, 2.75; 95% CI, 1.82-4.16),
compared with CCEA. However, CCEA was associated
with signiﬁcantly higher incidence of perioperative hypotension (OR, 11.37; 95% CI, 1.95-66.46)323 (Table V).
Carotid artery bypass. If the distal end point cannot be
assessed adequately or is incomplete, a transverse incision in the ICA can be chosen for completion of the eversion endarterectomy to evaluate the rest of the end point
and also to tack down the distal intima.318 Alternatively, if
the disease extends or the end point is not well tacked
down, a more commonly used approach is to transect
the ICA distally and perform a common carotid to ICA
bypass. This can be done in numerous ways.324-329 The
most common technique calls for transection of the ICA
at the distal end point and an anastomosis performed
with greater saphenous vein or appropriately sized
prosthetic, usually 6 mm. By performing a distal ﬁrst, the
length of the bypass can be judged so there is no kinking.
One option is to close the arteriotomy on the CCA preserving the external carotid artery into and end-to-side
anastomosis more proximally on the CCA. Alternatively,
one can use the area with which one did an endarterectomy and place the heel of the bypass on the external
carotid artery and trying to preserve it.326 Last, in extreme
circumstances, the external carotid artery can be ligated.
Summary and recommendations.
1. There is Level 1 evidence to support a recommendation in favor of routine carotid patching.
2. Primary closure may be safely practiced in a large ICA
of greater than 6 mm.
3. There is also no difference between preferential use of
various patch materials, whether saphenous vein, jugular vein or synthetic patches (ACUSEAL, PTFE,
Dacron, or pericardial patches).
4. Based on available data, there is no difference in
stroke/death rates between CCEA with patch closure
and ECEA.
5. The rate of signiﬁcant post-CEA stenosis with CEA
with patching is somewhat similar with ECEA; however, ECEA had a lower post-CEA stenosis rate than patients undergoing CEA with primary closure.
Technical tips for high carotid lesions
High bifurcation or stenosis extending above C2 can present a technical challenge, as well as an increased risk of
cranial nerve injuries. Although this is not a common problem, clinicians must be prepared to approach these high
lesions. The ﬁrst indication of an unusually high lesion
could be inability to image above the lesion when

performing the ultrasound assessment. In these instances,
corroborative CTA and/or MR imaging must be performed
to fully evaluate operative approaches. In highly select
cases, the presence of distal disease extension may
prompt the surgeon to reconsider whether CAS is more
appropriate (especially in asymptomatic patients), or
whether medical therapy would be more appropriate.
In the presence of distal disease extension, advanced
planning is essential. Nasal pharyngeal intubation enables the mouth to be closed which then opens up the
angle between the jaw and mastoid process to facilitate
distal access.330 Subluxation (not dislocation) of the temporal mandible joint has to be undertaken preoperatively because it cannot be performed once the
operation is underway.171,331,332 An alternative strategy involves extending the incision anterior to the ear and
mobilization of the superﬁcial lobe of the parotid. This
greatly increases access to the upper ICA, but usually requires assistance of an ENT specialist or parotid surgeon.330 Intraoperatively, there are several techniques
to optimize access to the more distal ICA. These include
division of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, division of the occipital branch of the external carotid artery, which tethers the hypoglossal nerve; transection of
the ansa-cervicalis, which also tethers the hypoglossal
nerve; and transection of the styloid process. One simple
maneuver can be transection of the ansa-cervicalis with
division of the digastric and keeping a suture on the
ansa-cervicalis and using it as a retractor to move the hypoglossal nerve out of the ﬁeld and protect it.171,330-332
Summary and recommendations.
1. Surgeons should anticipate the presence of distal disease extension preoperatively and plan for this in
advance in case a high exposure of the ICA is
necessary.
Wound drainage and hematoma after CEA
Stone et al165 reported that reexploration for neck hematomas were required in 1.3% of CEA patients on
aspirin, 0.9% on clopidogrel, and 1.5% of patients taking
aspirin and clopidogrel. There is no evidence that dual
antiplatelet therapy signiﬁcantly increases hematoma
risk.165,333-335 In one study, protamine reversal demonstrated a statistically signiﬁcant reduction of neck hematoma formation after CEA. However, the amount of
heparin that was used was not mentioned, and this
may also be a mitigating factor. There are further data
for comparison. A vast majority of hematomas occur in
the ﬁrst six hours after CEA, often after a period of poorly
controlled hypertension. The rationale for placing a
wound drain after CEA is that it should prevent hematoma formation as well as resultant, and potential major
complications such as respiratory compromise or potential nidus for abscess formation, which may cause patch
infection. Small caliber suction drains (#10F) do not
seem to decrease the incidence or prevalence of

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

55S

Volume 75, Number 1S

hematoma, whereas larger drains (14F) may help.336
Despite ﬁndings from this single randomized trial, there
are not enough convincing data to support mandating
drain or no drainage of CEA incisions. Any evidence of
stridor or tracheal deviation mandates immediate
wound exploration and hematoma evacuation.
Summary and recommendations.
1. The decision for use of drainage post CEA should be
left up to the operating surgeon.
2. Patients on heparin anticoagulation may beneﬁt from
perioperative suction drainage; however, there are no
Level 1 data to conﬁrm this.
Completion imaging
The previous carotid guideline document highlighted
uncertainty regarding use of completion imaging after
CEA to prevent restenosis or stroke.3 Despite numerous reports of postendarterectomy intraoperative lesion detection with completion imaging,337-339 there were also
several series that reported favorable outcomes without
use of routine imaging.340,341 In 2013, a Vascular Study
Group of Northern New England report of 6115 CEAs
with variable use of completion imaging did not show
risk-adjusted improvement in outcome, with possible
deleterious effects on mortality and stroke with resultant
reexploration based on imaging ﬁndings.342 However, a
recent German study of 142,074 CEAs from 2009 to 2014
reported an independent risk reduction with use of
completion ultrasound examination orangiography.256
This ﬁnding has not been reproduced in a large series
and in the absence of a prospective trial, it remains difﬁcult to advocate for compulsory completion imaging after
CEA for the purpose of reducing future events. However, if
there is concern about the end point, abnormal Doppler
ﬁndings or neurologic deterioration completion studies
should be performed.
Summary and recommendations. There is insufﬁcient
evidence to recommend routine use of completion imaging after CEA.
Management of carotid coils and kinks
In the absence of signiﬁcant stenosis, management of
patients with ICA coils and kinks remains controversial.
Incidental coils and kinks are found in up to 16% of patients, and one-half will have histologic features consistent with ﬁbromuscular dysplasia. One randomized trial
compared surgical correction and medical therapy in
182 patients with hemispheric/nonhemispheric symptoms in an isolated coil and kink in the ICA. At a mean
follow-up of almost 6 years, patients randomized to surgical correction had 0% risk of occlusion compared with
5.5% of those randomized to medical treatment (P ¼
.002). Late stroke was 0% in surgically treated patients
compared with 6.6% in medically treated patients (P ¼
.01). Unfortunately, 41% of the medical patients crossed
over to surgical treatment because of recurrent hemispheric or ongoing nonhemispheric symptoms, thus

making interpretation difﬁcult.343 Despite these data, it
is difﬁcult to recommend operative therapy of asymptomatic patients with kinks or coils other than how clinicians
would
normally
treat
their
underling
hemodynamically signiﬁcant atherosclerotic disease.
Summary and recommendations.
1. Surgical intervention for asymptomatic isolated coils
or kinks of the ICA is not recommended.
2. Symptomatic patients with isolated coils and kinks
may be considered for surgical correction but only after all other etiologies for TIA or stroke symptoms can
be identiﬁed.

TIMING OF CAROTID INTERVENTION IN STROKE
Acute stroke. See the Clinical Practice Guidelines
document.3
Stroke in evolution. Stroke in evolution is a clinical syndrome that has been characterized as an evolving neurologic condition associated with an acute precipitating
neurologic event. In these situations, initial medical management of stroke including antiplatelet therapy, volume
support and blood pressure management has not succeeded in stabilizing the patient’s neurologic outcome,
which may wax and wane over the early course of the
presentation. Patients may never return to normal and
their neurologic deﬁcit will be mild to moderate in nature. Often, there has been a permanent area of infarction, but the remaining ischemic penumbra is
signiﬁcant and attention is directed at salvaging this
ischemic area as rapidly as possible.
Expeditious clinical evaluation, brain imaging, and
rapid evaluation of the carotid bifurcation is important
to optimize result. Brain imaging, most often by
diffusion-weighted MRI, allows rapid assessment of the
amount of brain infarcted and the amount at risk. After
brain imaging to exclude hemorrhage as an etiology
and to identify ischemic but viable brain, carotid imaging
by duplex ultrasound examination, CTA, or MRI should
be used to identify the offending lesion at the carotid
bifurcation. If other etiologies are excluded, urgent CEA
is warranted. In general, patients with preocclusive ICA
stenosis or carotid occlusion are considered for emergency intervention, whereas those with less severe stenosis are initially medically optimized with urgent, but not
emergent, intervention, planned during the admission.344-349
The presumption is that optimizing hemispheric blood
ﬂow will improve perfusion in the ischemic hemisphere
and decrease the ultimate extent of the neurologic
deﬁcit. This must be balanced by concern that restoring
blood ﬂow may result in hemorrhagic conversion of an
infarct or reperfusion injury.
There are no large series of patients treated in standard
manner from which to draw deﬁnitive conclusions
regarding optimal therapy in patients where

56S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

hemorrhage has been excluded by brain imaging. Some
surgeons use a heparin infusion to try to stabilize these
patients and prevent propagation of thrombus as part
of the immediate management, although there are no
conclusive data supporting this approach. There are
scant reports outlining the outcomes of CEA among patients who present with stroke in evolution. In general,
risk of stroke/death have been reported from 9.2% to
26%. However, this reﬂects patient heterogeneity and
lack of standard selection criteria for intervention.350
The lack of high-quality data in the treatment of stroke
in evolution precludes any clear conclusions regarding
management of these patients. However, many extrapolate data for improved results with early CEA for stroke
because these patient populations may overlap.
Crescendo TIA. Patients with crescendo TIAs, by deﬁnition, have not experienced a signiﬁcant volume of brain
infarcted. However, they do have a signiﬁcant amount
of brain at risk from a very unstable lesion with multiple
small emboli or a large ischemic brain penumbra owing
to hemodynamic compromise and poor cerebral autoregulation. In these cases, attention is directed at the
source of the symptoms: the carotid bifurcation disease.
This relatively rare clinical syndrome is characterized by
repetitive episodes of transient neurologic ischemia followed by return to normal neurologic status. The deﬁnition of crescendo varies, but generally includes multiple
events within a 24-hour period that do not respond to
antiplatelet therapy. High-grade stenosis of the carotid
bifurcation, often with associated ulceration or
thrombus, is a common ﬁnding. Brain imaging may not
reveal a signiﬁcant area of infarcted brain and there
may not be a large ischemic penumbra. Symptoms are
thought to arise from unstable carotid plaque with recurrent emboli despite antiplatelet therapy, or from unstable cerebral hemodynamics. Therapy in these patients
is directed at removing the causative lesion at the carotid
bifurcation.351-354
Some surgeons advocate heparin therapy during the
preoperative period if intracranial hemorrhage has been
excluded. There are no randomized trial data for determining whether intravenous heparin administration is superior to antiplatelet therapy in preventing early recurrent
stroke in patients with stroke in evolution or crescendo
TIAs. Two trials compared low-molecular-weight heparin
vs aspirin monotherapy in acute stroke patients where antiplatelet/antithrombotic therapy was commenced
within 48 hours of onset of symptoms. There was no significant difference in early outcomes between therapies in
either study. However, in one trial, the post hoc analysis
analyzed the incidence of neurologic deterioration at
10 days and found that low-molecular-weight heparin
therapy was associated with a signiﬁcant decrease in
ischemic stroke progression (5%) compared with aspirin

(12.7%) without an excess risk of cerebral hemorrhage.353
Another study demonstrated that early administration
of aspirin and clopidogrel, once parenchymal hemorrhage was excluded by CT scan and or MRI, was associated
with signiﬁcant reduction of spontaneous embolization
(21% to 5%) and a signiﬁcant reduction of recurrent events
before CEA (13% to 3%). In the absence of high-quality evidence, it may seem reasonable to offer heparin plus
aspirin or dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with a
recurrent TIAs or crescendo TIAs before urgent CEA.
Urgent CEA in these patients has been associated with
an increased risk of stroke compared with elective interventions. However, results of surgery in patients with crescendo TIAs are better than those for stroke in
evolution.355,356 CEA in neurologically unstable patients
(ie, stroke in evolution, crescendo TIA) carries a higher
than average procedural risk when performed in the
elective setting. However, without surgery there is a signiﬁcant chance of another major neurologic event. A
meta-analysis reported that stroke and death risk after
CEA were 20.2% in patients undergoing CEA for stroke
in evolution and 11.4% in patients undergoing CEA for
crescendo TIA. However, in select patients with an area
of infarction volume less than 30% of the MCA territory,
emergency CEA can be performed with a 2% to 8%
risk of stroke/death among patients with stroke in evolution and 0% to 2% among patients presenting with crescendo TIAs.357 Although there were no data comparing
CAS with CEA in these patients, the presumptive increase in embolic potential of these plaques suggested
that CEA would be preferred to CAS when the former
is feasible.
Acute postoperative stroke or occlusion. Patients who
undergo carotid intervention may suffer stroke in the
early post intervention period. The goal of treatment is
to expeditiously restore intracranial blood ﬂow to normal
levels and to identify the etiology of the stroke.
Until proven otherwise, a stroke that occurs immediately after CEA is considered secondary to a technical
defect at the operative site. Other etiologies of stroke in
the immediate postoperative period include embolization, intraoperative watershed infarct and intracranial
hemorrhage. The status of the endarterectomy site
should be determined expeditiously, and in most cases,
this can be done by emergency bedside ultrasound imaging. If thrombosis is conﬁrmed, operative exploration
with repair of defect is urgently indicated. Early reexploration of an occluded CEA site with successful repair may
reduce long-term neurologic sequelae.358 Although
there is no control group available for comparison, reexploration for symptomatic thrombosis has been associated with resolution of neurologic defects in up to
three quarters of patients. Reconstructions include reendarterectomy and patch with extension of the

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

57S

Volume 75, Number 1S

arteriotomy cephalad and caudad, as well as bypass of
the endarterectomized segment with a prosthetic or
vein conduit, especially in cases when platelet aggregates have been seen.
If imaging shows the endarterectomy site is patent
without debris, other etiologies should be considered,
including distal embolization or intracranial hemorrhage. An emergency head CT scan to exclude hemorrhage followed by anticoagulation and angiography
with intracranial intervention according to acute stroke
guidelines is indicated. If capability for acute stroke intervention is not available, then anticoagulation and blood
pressure support is indicated. Meticulous blood pressure
control in the periprocedure period has been identiﬁed
as an important predictor of positive outcomes for all
acute stroke interventions.60
Summary and recommendations for management of
acute neurologic syndrome.
1. Patients who present in less than 6 hours of onset of
stroke should be considered for acute intervention
to reduce the ultimate neurologic deﬁcit. Interventions may include local or systemic thrombolysis
(see Clinical Practice Guidelines).
2. Patients who present with ﬁxed neurologic deﬁcit
greater than 6 hours in duration should be considered
for CEA once their condition has been stabilized. CEA
should be performed less than 14 days after the index
neurologic event.
3. Patients who present with repetitive (crescendo episodes of transient cerebral ischemia) unresponsive
to antiplatelet therapy should be considered for urgent CEA.
4. Patients with a stenosis or more than 50% who present with stroke in evolution or crescendo TIAs should
be considered for urgent CEA, preferably within
24 hours. Early CEA within 14 days should be considered after intravenous thrombolysis in symptomatic
patients if they make a rapid neurologic recovery
(modiﬁed Rankin 0-2), the area of infarction is less
than 30% of the ipsilateral MCA territory, a previously
occluded MCA has been recanalized, there is a
greater than 50% carotid stenosis and no evidence
of parenchymal hemorrhage or signiﬁcant brain
edema.
5. For acute strokes after CEA, immediate imaging ultrasound examination or CTA is indicated for the evaluation of the endarterectomized site, if it can be done
expeditiously. When imaging suggests thrombosis or
is
indeterminate,
immediate
operative
reintervention is indicated. Immediate exploration is
mandated if imaging is delayed.
6. When the endarterectomy site is patent, other modalities of CT scanning and angiography should be used
to better identify as a cause of stroke. If CT scanning
excludes intracranial hemorrhage, anticoagulation is
reasonable until deﬁnitive decision regarding the
appropriate diagnosis and therapy can be made.

7. Revascularization should not be considered in patients with any stenosis who suffered a disabling
stroke, modiﬁed Rankin score of greater than 3 whose
area of infarction exceeds 30% of the ipsilateral MCA
territory or who have altered consciousness to minimize the risk of postoperative parenchymal
hemorrhage.
8. It is recommended that patients undergoing early carotid interventions after thrombolysis should have
postinterventional hypertension actively treated to
reduce the risk of parenchymal hemorrhage.

CAROTID ARTERY STENTING
Access: Femoral, radial, cervical (TCAR)
Appropriate patient selection for CAS was discussed in
prior sections of these guidelines. In summary, there is
strong evidence that aortic arch tortuosity (type III arch)
and severe atherosclerosis are associated with a signiﬁcant
increase in risk of stroke during CAS.175,359 Moreover, longer
and more extensive carotid lesions are associated with dramatic increase in adverse outcomes.175 Patients over age 80
tend to have more tortuous anatomy and more advanced
lesions. Prior studies showed better outcomes for these patients with CEA vs transfemoral CAS.197,199,360,361 There is also
strong evidence that dual antiplatelet therapy, statins, beta
blockers, and tight diabetes control can reduce risk of
stroke and death during CAS.62,164,362,363
CAS has the advantage of percutaneous access and
should be performed under local anesthesia with
conscious sedation because local anesthesia reduces
risk of cardiac complications and allows for continuous
neurologic monitoring.238,364,365
Transfemoral access. CAS is commonly performed via
a retrograde transfemoral approach using 5F to 9F access sheath in a right-handed operator. This approach
is advantageous in that the femoral artery can accommodate larger diameter devices. Duplex ultrasound examination should be used to guide access to the
common femoral artery. Micropuncture (5F) access is
used for initial access and exchanged to 0.035 access
with a 90-cm 6F sheath (Cook Medical, Bloomington,
Ind). The patient is subsequently heparinized before any
arch instrumentation to keep an activated clotting time
of greater than 250 and up to 300 seconds. An aortic
arch angiogram using long pigtail catheter and 45 left
anterior oblique projection is useful in identifying and
cannulating the ostia of the great vessels.366 Roadmap or
overlay techniques are useful to guide access into the
major vessels’ origin. An arch angiogram may not be
necessary when preoperative CTA or MRA is available.
Several catheters are available for selecting the CCA. The
most common are JB1 or vertebral shape catheters for
simple arch anatomy and VTEK or SIM2 catheters for
complex arch anatomy. In general, a double curved

58S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

catheter is used for carotid cannulation. A cervical carotid angiogram is performed through the catheter to
conﬁrm selection of the CCA. A glide wire is advanced
into the mid CCA. Some catheters are compatible with
the 6F guiding sheath, which allow for telescoping the
sheath over the catheter and the glide wire without exchange to dilator. The sheath is advanced into the mid to
distal CCA, avoiding the lesion. The use of a stiff wire into
the ECA may facilitate advancing the sheath into the
mid/distal CCA. The sheath should be ﬂushed carefully
with heparinized saline to avoid air embolization.367
Certain anatomic conditions such as severe aortoiliac
disease, unfavorable aortic arch conﬁguration (type II or
III), bovine arch anatomy, and supra-aortic vessel takeoff can render Transfemoral CAS more difﬁcult.175,359,368
Patients with complex aortic arch anatomy and patients
greater than 80 years of age are at high risk of cerebral
embolization during CAS owing to manipulation of the
aortic arch and major vessels before placement of an
EPD. In an MRI-based, prospective single-center study,
40% of patients undergoing transfemoral CAS had evidence of cerebral embolization with 60% of the cerebral
infarcts being outside the vascular territory of the treated
lesion, observations suggesting that emboli originated
from the aortic arch.369 In the Carotid ACCULINK/ACCUNET Post Approval Trial to Uncover Unanticipated or
Rare Events (CAPTURE) postapproval study, nearly one
in ﬁve strokes occurred in a nonipsilateral distribution,
with the exception of intraprocedural events, which
were all ipsilateral to the stent being implanted.370
Radial and brachial access. CAS from upper extremity
approaches can be performed safely and is effective in
treating both left- and right-sided carotid lesions in patients with type III and bovine arch anatomy. These approaches are patient selective, and used based on the
operator’s experience. A preprocedural Allen’s test and
careful review of all imaging studies should be performed before considering these approaches.371 However, such access is technically difﬁcult for catheterization
of a nonbovine left ICA take-off (owing to its sharp angle)
and does not solve the problem of ostial stenosis.372
Multiple studies analyzing large cohorts demonstrate
low complication risk from radial approaches, while
others have noted beneﬁts of both radial and brachial
approaches.371,373-377 In particular, excellent results have
been achieved with right brachial approaches in patients
with left ICA lesions and bovine arch anatomy,373 and
with transradial access in patients undergoing CAS
with bovine and type III aortic arch anatomy.371 Although
some investigators have found it beneﬁcial to approach
CAS from a contralateral radial access,371 others reserve
the left radial access to treat left-sided lesions in patients
with previous debranching procedures (eg, left
common-to-subclavian bypasses, because this method
allows access to the ipsilateral ICA). The latter avoids
crossing all three great vessels and minimizes arch

manipulation; therefore, decreasing risk of embolic
events. The RADCAR (Radial access for Carotid artery
stenting) study randomized patients to transradial (n ¼
130) and transfemoral (n ¼ 130) groups and showed no
differences in major adverse events and hospitalization
between the two approaches. However, with transradial
access, crossover and radiation dose were higher. Moreover, hospitalization was shorter with transradial access
in the per-protocol analysis.378
Technique for radial/brachial approach. A micropuncture access set is used for brachial artery access, whereas a
GlidesheathÔ hydrophilic-coated nitinol micropuncture
set (Terumo Medical, Somerset, NJ), is used for radial artery
access.378 Patients undergoing radial artery access are given
both verapamil (0.075-0.15 mg/kg) and nitroglycerin (100200 mg for a 70-kg patient) as boluses through the sheath as
antispasmodics. Anticoagulation during the procedure is
achieved upon access to the target vessel with unfractionated heparin with the goal of keeping activated clotting
time of greater than 250 up to 300 seconds. The target CCA
is initially cannulated using standard techniques, and an
angled catheter (ie, Cobra, Headhunter) is usually used. A
0.035-inch hydrophilic coated wire is then used to position
the catheter into the CCA or external carotid artery,
depending on anatomy. Once access is secured with a
medium body wire, the 5F sheath is exchanged for a 6F
shuttle sheath and advanced over the wire once the target
CCA or external carotid artery is engaged.
CAS is then performed using standard techniques.
Once the procedure is complete, the heparin is actively
reversed with protamine sulfate. Manual pressure is
applied for brachial access, and a TR Band assisted
compression device (Terumo Interventional Systems,
Irvine, Calif) is used for radial access.
Transcarotid artery revascularization. Direct open cervical access of the CCA offers the advantage of avoiding the
atherosclerotic arch and crossing the major vessels. It can
be performed under general, regional or local anesthesia
with conscious sedation. Preoperative duplex ultrasound
examination and/or CTA is needed to evaluate the CCA
and its bifurcations. The proximal cervical CCA must be
free of severe calciﬁcation and atheroma. A minimal 6mm luminal diameter is required. Proper distance between the clavicle and bifurcation (5-cm landing zone) is
required for TCAR. The depth of the CCA should be also
evaluated. The ratio of depth/landing zone should be less
than 1:2. In anatomies where the ratio is greater than one,
TCAR is not recommended. Details of this technique have
been described elsewhere.379 In brief, a 2- to 4-cm transverse or longitudinal incision is made in the triangle between the two heads of the sternocleidomastoid muscle
and clavicle. The proximal CCA is dissected free and vessel
loop or umbilical tape is placed proximally. A purse-string
or U 5.0 Prolene pre-suture is placed and the CCA is
punctured directly with a 21G micropuncture needle. Using
a standard approach, the CCA access is secured and placed

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

59S

Volume 75, Number 1S

at a 45 angle, and a 0.018-inch soft tip microwire is
advanced 3 to 4 cm into the external carotid artery. Next, a
5F soft microsheath is placed only 2 cm into the CCA over
the microwire. The microwire and dilator are removed and
a cervical carotid angiography with road mapping or fade
in and out digital subtraction is performed with different
oblique views to delineate the bifurcation. If the external
carotid artery is open with no lesion at the bifurcation, the
wire is advanced into ECA followed by the 5-F microsheath
with dilator (ECA engaging technique). The 0.035-inch wire
is then advanced in the microsheath into the ECA. This
technique allows a for few additional centimeters of purchase. If the lesion involves the bifurcation or if the ECA is
signiﬁcantly narrowed, stay short technique is recommended with advancing of the microsheath followed by
the 0.035 wire into distal CCA but staying short of the lesion.
Next, an 8F sheath is advanced over a 0.035 wire carefully
with gentle traction on the umbilical tape on the CCA. At
least two angiography views are performed through the
sheath to conﬁrm proper position. Technical advantages of
this technique include ease of direct access, use of short
wire and catheters, and the ability to clamp the proximal
CCA providing CEA-like cerebral protection before lesion
manipulation. Prior studies demonstrate a signiﬁcant
decrease in the incidence of silent ischemic lesions after
TCAR compared with transfemoral CAS using diffusionweighted MRI.380,381 The risk of DWI in the ICSS study was
17% in the CEA arm vs 73% in the transfemoral CAS arm.382
The PROOF study showed 18% risk of DWI after TCAR with
ﬂow reversal and proximal CCA clamping.380
Summary and recommendations.
Access.
1. Proper imaging of the aortic arch and carotid bifurcation are recommended preoperatively.
2. Transfemoral access can be used in younger patients
and aortic arch free of obvious disease.
3. Transradial and transbrachial access is especially
beneﬁcial in left ICA lesions in patients with bovine
anatomy or prior carotid subclavian bypass.
4. TCAR has advantages of avoiding the diseased
tortuous arch and providing CEA like protection.
Technical considerations
Use of cerebral protection devices/TCAR. Cerebral
protection devices have resulted in lower risk of distal
embolization. The results from the EVA-3S reported
signiﬁcantly lower 30-day stroke risk in patients undergoing transfemoral CAS with EPD compared with those
without EPD (7.5% vs 25%; P ¼ .03). An EPD was required
in all patients enrolled in the CREST, and the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services requires an EPD in all

patients undergoing CAS to be considered for reimbursement. A meta-analysis of more than 15,000 CAS
procedures showed a 45% decrease in stroke and death
with an EPD.359 Currently, cerebral embolic protection
can be achieved via distal microporous ﬁlters, distal occlusion devices, proximal occlusion with ﬂow reversal,
and with the TCAR with the dynamic ﬂow reversal neuroprotection system. The choice of device is often
dependent on physician preference and familiarity. The
distal ICA with minimal tortuosity and adequate diameter and length must be available for suitable placement
of a distal EPD.
Evidence regarding the superiority of one protection
device over another is limited. The Prevention of Cerebral Embolization by Proximal Balloon Occlusion
compared with Filter Protection during Carotid Artery
Stenting (PROFI) study is the only randomized trial
that compared ﬁlter-protected vs proximal balloonprotected transfemoral CAS. The study reported a
signiﬁcantly lower incidence of ischemic lesions after
proximal occlusion compared with distal ﬁlters (6.5%
vs 29%; P ¼ .05) with a DWI risk of 87% with distal ﬁlters
vs 45% with proximal occlusion.383 In a meta-analysis of
eight studies comparing ﬁlter protection vs proximal
occlusion, Stabile et al384 a reported lower incidence
of newer ischemic lesions in patients undergoing proximal occlusion.
Distal ﬁlter devices. Distal ﬁlter devices are most
commonly used for CAS, and they have the advantage
of smaller diameter and maintaining the antegrade ICA
ﬂow throughout the procedure. Several distal ﬁlters are
available and each is compatible with a stent system
such as the Emboshield Nav6, Rx Accunet (Abott Laboratories, Abott Park, Ill), Angioguard Rx (Cordis, Melpitas,
Calif), and FilterWire EZ (Boston Scientiﬁc) and Spider
FX (Medtronic, Dublin, Ireland). However, there is no evidence of the superiority of one distal ﬁlter over
another.385
The microporous ﬁlter must be deployed in a straight
segment of the ICA to allow apposition of the ﬁlter to
the vessel wall. It must be placed in the distal ICA at a
sufﬁcient distance to allow safe deployment of the distal
end of the stents without trapping of the ﬁlter. Visualization of the sheath should be maintained at all times to
prevent prolapse of the sheath into the arch, which could
dislodge the ﬁlter and pull it through the carotid
lesion.366
The main disadvantage of using distal ﬁlters is that the
lesion must be passed initially which increases risk of cerebral embolization. The ﬁlters can also become
occluded if a large amount of debris is released. Moreover, small particulate debris (<100 mm) can pass
through the pores of the ﬁlter. Improper movement of
the device might damage the surrounding vessel wall
and lead to dislodgement of fragments and debris
around the ﬁlter. In the case of very tight or extremely

60S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

tortuous lesions, systems that are advanced over an independent wire and not attached to a wire itself may be
preferable. These systems ﬁrst advance the guidewire
and then track the EPD over that wire. An angiogram is
usually obtained before completion and removal of the
EPD. If extensive amounts of debris are trapped within
the EPD, blood ﬂow in the ICA might stop. In this case,
the resultant standing column of blood and any embolic
debris should be aspirated to prevent embolization
when the EPD is withdrawn.366 An aspiration catheter
with a side port might be needed to evacuate the standing column of debris.
Distal occlusion devices. Distal occlusion devices are
not commonly used and have largely been abandoned
in current practice. Similar to distal ﬁlters, a distal occlusion device initially requires the crossing of the lesion,
which can result in increased embolization. Also, this device has the disadvantage of stopping blood ﬂow during
stenting. However, it does have an advantage of smaller
diameter than proximal occlusion devices. If these devices used, it is crucial to aspirate adequately after stenting and before balloon deﬂation to remove all debris.
Vasospasm may be encountered before or just after ﬁlter
or occlusion balloon removal, and this is usually
managed by watchful waiting. Rarely, the administration
of a vasodilatordmost commonly nitroglycerine in 100mg aliquotsdis necessary to relieve ﬂow-limiting
vasospasm.366
Proximal occlusion. Proximal occlusion with transfemoral CAS can be achieved with the MoMa device by
placement of two occlusion balloons in common and
external carotid artery (Medtronic). Disadvantages of
this system are the larger sheath size (9F), the need for
ECA selection and balloon placement.
TCAR with cerebral ﬂow reversal. The ENROUTE system for TCAR allows for dynamic cerebral ﬂow reversal
by connecting the arterial sheath to a venous sheath
placed in the common femoral vein. The connecting
tubing allows for low and high ﬂow reversal options. After
clamping of the proximal CCA, active ﬂow reversal carries
embolic debris, released during or immediately after angioplasty and stent placement, away from the cerebral
circulation. The main advantage of this technique, in
addition to avoiding the arch, is the ability to perform
the entire procedure (lesion crossing, ballooning, and
stenting) under complete protection. The disadvantages
of this technique include the need to cutdown
compared with the percutaneous approach, the inability
to use it in patients with calciﬁed and atherosclerotic
proximal CCA and proximal CCA diameter of less than
6 mm or in patients with less than 5 cm distance from
the clavicle to the carotid bifurcation. Short-term results from the ROADSTER study of high-risk patients
undergoing TCAR with the ENROUTE neuroprotection
and stent system showed the lowest stroke risk (1.4%)
compared with all other prospective and randomized

clinical trials of endovascular carotid intervention.177
These ﬁndings persisted up to 1 year with a 0.6% incidence of ipsilateral stroke and 3.7% overall mortality after
TCAR with dynamic ﬂow reversal.178 A recent study by
Malas et al from the VQI/SVS TCAR Surveillance Project
(TSP) showed that transfemoral CAS is associated with
twice the odds of in-hospital neurologic events
compared with TCAR.207,386,387 Another study by Schermerhorn et al388 from the TSP, showed no signiﬁcant
difference in stroke and death rate between TCAR and
CEA. A more recent and larger analysis by Malas et al208
from TSP showed a signiﬁcant reduction in risk of CNI
and MI in TCAR in comparison with CEA.
Although the transfemoral approach remains the most
commonly used access in daily practice, advances in
endovascular technology may result in shifting the access site to TCAR to optimize CAS safety, especially in
elderly patients and those with unfavorable aortic arch
anatomy. However, long-term follow-up is needed to
validate the beneﬁts of these new technologies.
Summary and recommendations.
1. Transfemoral CAS should be performed with distal or
proximal protection devices.
2. There is no evidence of superiority of one DEP device
vs the others.
3. There is some evidence that proximal protection offers advantage over DEP by avoiding unprotected
lesion crossing.
4. TCAR with cerebral ﬂow reversal had the lowest reported stroke rate to date compare to all transfemoral
CAS studies.
Timing of PTA during stenting. A key step during CAS,
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) can be performed after establishing distal or proximal protection.
Both prestent and poststent deployment PTA can be
performed. Pre-dilatation allows the stent delivery system to be advanced without being constrained or trapped. In pre-PTA, a balloon with 2- to 4-mm diameter and
15- to 20-mm length is used to prepare a stenosed vessel
for stent deployment. However, predilatation might increase the risk for embolic stroke. Risk of perioperative
stroke in the CAPTURE study was signiﬁcantly higher in
patients with pre-PTA vs without PTA (OR, 3.68, 95% CI,
2.26-6.0, P < .001).198 However, a real-world analysis of all
CAS cases in the VQI database between 2005 and 2016
showed a similar risk of stroke and death after primary
CAS without angioplasty compared with conventional
CAS with angioplasty, as long as an EPD is used.389
Balloon inﬂation should, therefore, be slow, bearing in
mind not to exceed the nominal pressure, which is then
followed by immediate gradual deﬂation. This practice
helps to prevent negative pressure formation and helps
to minimize embolic showering.
In contrast, post-PTA is largely user dependent. It is
commonly used to mitigate residual stenosis after stent
deployment. However, post-PTA is associated with an

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

61S

Volume 75, Number 1S

increased risk of intraoperative and postoperative hemodynamic depression, and a signiﬁcant increase in the risk
of stroke and death. The latter might be secondary to
fracturing of the atheromatous plaque and liberation
of a large amount of particulate debris.390 Obeid
et al391 compared pre-PTA vs post-PTA using the SVSVQI dataset and reported a 2-fold higher odds of periprocedural stroke/death rate following poststent PTA
compared with prestent PTA. However, patient selection
may be biased in this analysis. Nonetheless, PTA is generally reserved for select cases with severe residual stenosis.
Stents used in CAS are self-expanding and continue to
expand after the procedure.392 A mild to moderate residual stenosis (<30%) of the target lesion may be
accepted in an effort to avoid generating excessive
embolic debris and potentially severe embolic
complications.366
A recent systematic review/meta-analysis of predilation
and postdilation in transfemoral CAS by Ziapour et al393
showed avoiding post-PTA reduces the perioperative hemodynamic instability which can last up to 30 days.
Regardless of the type, fewer PTA during CAS particularly
decreases neurologic events during and 30 days after the
procedure.
Summary and recommendations.
Pre-PTA and post-PTA.
1. Protection should be established before PTA during
CAS.
2. Prestent PTA can be performed safely with small
diameter balloon to nominal pressure.
3. Post-PTA should only be used for patients with significant residual stenosis.
Stent selection.
Open closed cells. Depending on the density of the
struts, carotid stents can be classiﬁed into open vs closed
cells. Generally, a free cell area of more than 7 mm2 is
considered an open cell and is thought to leave larger
gaps uncovered. Closed-cell design stents have small
cell areas and may provide effective plaque coverage,
reducing the risk of debris embolization. However, they
are less conformable to the carotid anatomy and thus
cannot be used in tortuous arteries. In contrast, open cell
designs are more ﬂexible and can accommodate
tortuous carotid anatomy but have large cell sizes that
might increase risk of plaque protrusion and potential
embolization. Current evidence on speciﬁc stent design
remains controversial, but largely supports beneﬁts of
close cell design. One small randomized clinical trial of
40 patients showed no difference in embolization between open and close cell design based on TCD and
DWI-MRI evaluations.394 A meta-analysis by Kouvelos
et al395 found no difference in 30-day cerebrovascular
complications after CAS using open vs closed cell

designs. Results from the SVS Registry also found no
association between perioperative stroke and stent
type.396 By contrast, a multicenter study looking at CAS
free cell area of greater than 7.5 mm2 found a higher
stroke risk compared with less than 7.5 mm2, suggesting
closed cells are more protective of stroke than open
cells.397 A recent pooled analysis of 1557 patients from
three large randomized trials (EVA-3S, SPACE, and ICSS)
showed an independent association between closed-cell
design and reduced risk of periprocedural stroke or
death.398 However, in a systemic review and comprehensive meta-analysis of 33 studies (including 2 randomized trials), use of an open cell stent design in CAS
was associated with decreased risk of restenosis
compared with the closed-cell stent without signiﬁcant
differences in periprocedural outcomes.399
Mesh-covered stents. A new generation of dual layered
carotid stents has been designed. These consist of thin
struts of nitinol wires covered with nitinol or polyethyleneterephthalate mesh, which helps to stabilize the plaque
and reduce risk of distal embolization.400 The Roadsaver
Carotid Artery Stent System (Microvention/Terumo), the
Gore Carotid Stent (W. L. Gore & Associates) and the CGuard
Carotid Stent System (InspireMD) feature different constructions, but all have a mesh covering with an open or
closed cell design, and a pore size that ranges from 180 to
500 mm. However, studies on the efﬁcacy and safety of
these stents are still inconclusive. Assessment of 41 procedures of ICA and CCA stenting using the Roadsaver
double nitinol layer micromesh stent in 40 nonconsecutive
patients with symptomatic or high-risk carotid artery stenosis showed favorable outcomes with one minor stroke
occurring after CCA selection with a guiding catheter
(before stent deployment) and one transient postprocedural TIA of the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere. No
restenosis or thrombosis were observed. Angiographic
stenosis decreased from 82.9 6 9.1% (range, 61%-97%) to
19.3 6 7.3% (range, 0%-34%) (P < .05).401
The CGuard CARENET (Carotid Embolic Protection Using MicroNet) trial included 30 consecutive patients
from four centers in Germany and Poland. The 30-day
major adverse cardiac or cerebrovascular event risk was
0%. New silent ipsilateral ischemic lesions on diffusionweighted MRI at 48 hours occurred in 37.0% of patients.
Thirty-day diffusion-weighted MRI showed complete resolution of all but one periprocedural lesion and only one
new minor lesion in relation to the 48-hour scan.402 In
contrast, in patients at high risk for CEA, data from the
SCAFFOLD trial showed a low risk of major adverse
events at 30 days as well as a low risk of ipsilateral stroke
from 31 days to 1 year with the Gore carotid stent (W. L.
Gore & Associates). The trial enrolled 312 patients, but
only 265 were included in the primary analysis. Thirtyday mortality risk was 0.6% (out of 265) and 30-day stroke
risk was 2.9% in the entire cohort. The two deaths reported in the study were not stroke related.

62S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

January Supplement 2022

Number of carotid stents. The number of stents used
are associated with risk of perioperative stroke, and this is
likely a surrogate for the length of the lesion and difﬁculty
of the case. Data from the CAPTURE trial demonstrated a
higher 30-day stroke risk of 9.7% after the use of multiple
stents compared with 4.5% in patients with only one
stent.198 In a secondary analysis from the CREST study, lesions longer than 12.85 mm had a 3.4-fold higher risk of
stroke and death in CAS compared with CEA.175 In contrast,
a recent study by AbuRahma et al403 of 409 patients who
underwent CAS between 2004 and 2015 found no signiﬁcant difference in stroke and major adverse events in
regards to the stent length, number of stents or stent
diameter after CAS.403 However, these results may be
explained by the small number of strokes/adverse events.
In summary, proper patient selection, careful preprocedural planning, including performing adequate imaging
studies to evaluate patient’s anatomy and lesion characteristics and optimal medical management, are crucial
in improving CAS outcomes. Advances in protection devices, membrane- and mesh-covered stents, alternative
hybrid approach such as TCAR and reversal of ﬂow also
offer promising tools to improve outcomes.404
Summary and recommendations.
Pre-PTA and post-PTA.
1. Embolic protection should be established before
PTA/CAS
2. There is conﬂicting evidence on the risk of stroke
based on stent cell design.
3. Early studies of covered stents showed favorable results. Larger studies are needed.
4. An increased number of stents or longer lesions is
associated with a signiﬁcant increase in the risk of
stroke.

EXTERNAL CEA INDICATIONS AND TECHNIQUES
The external carotid artery is an integral part of the collateral circulation in the setting of a known ICA occlusion. As
such, referable neurologic symptoms may arise from
embolization of the proximal aspect of the occluded ICA
or from external carotid artery stenosis via the usual
thromboembolic mechanism.405,406 For many decades,
external CEA has been discussed in the setting of new or
recurrent neurologic or ocular symptoms given the aforementioned pathophysiology.407-413 Other than small series and case reports, there has been no new reporting in
the literature with respect to treatment recommendations.414-416 Treatment consists of ﬂush ligation of the internal carotid and common and external CEA to remove the
embolic source. Despite the lack of conﬁrmatory evidence, use of this technique in the appropriate setting of
symptoms and relevant anatomy seems reasonable.

Summary and recommendations. In the appropriate
clinical setting, external CEA and ﬂush ligation of the
ICA is suggested to minimize further neurologic
sequelae.

COMPLICATIONS OF CAROTID INTERVENTION
Early complications of carotid intervention
1. Stroke after CEA (intraoperative and immediate postoperative stroke): therapy
2. Stroke after CAS
3. Hemodynamic instability: post CEA hypertension and
hypotension
4. Post-CAS hemodynamic depression
5. CNI after CEA
6. Myocardial infarction/renal insufﬁciency
7. Wound hematoma after CEA
Late complications after carotid intervention
1. Prosthetic patch infection
2. Restenosis following CEA
3. Restenosis following CAS
Early complications of CEA
Stroke after CEA. Stroke is one of the most serious
complications following CEA, and its incidence must be
minimized to achieve appropriate CEA efﬁcacy in stroke
prevention, particularly among neurologically asymptomatic patients. More than 20 different mechanisms
of perioperative stroke have been identiﬁed.417 The
most common mechanism of stroke is perioperative
arterial thrombosis and embolization, frequently related
to a technical deﬁcit at the endarterectomy site.417,418
Examples of technical deﬁcits can include inadvertently
leaving behind residual intimal ﬂaps, atheromatous disease, or luminal thrombus.417,418 Additional examples of
technical complications include vascular clamp injuries
or damage caused by intra-arterial shunt placement.
Other potential causes of perioperative stoke include
cerebral ischemia during carotid clamping and intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH),417,418 but these less common
etiologies of perioperative stroke are not typically
dependent on technical imperfections that may occur
during the operation itself.
Some authors have recommended intraoperative
completion imaging studies to minimize risk of leaving
technical imperfections at the endarterectomy site.3,417
These completion studies can include continuous wave
Doppler, duplex ultrasound examinaton, or intraoperative arteriography, and they are operator and technique
dependent. There is controversy concerning what technical deﬁcits noted on completion imaging studies warrant intraoperative reexploration of the artery because
not all technical imperfections will cause strokes.3,417
Additionally, attempts to revise lesions have the potential

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

63S

Volume 75, Number 1S

to cause additional morbidity from repeated manipulation of the vessel. Some authors believe that intraoperative completion studies may be particularly useful
following eversion endarterectomy, because the distal
end point may not be sufﬁciently visualized with this
technique. Other authors have found no signiﬁcant
beneﬁt to completion imaging, and report excellent results without routinely using any type of completion
studies.3,341,417 Therefore, the routine use of completion
imaging after CEA remains controversial. The clinical signiﬁcance of many observed abnormalities is uncertain,
and it has not been deﬁnitively proven that routine performance of completion studies reduces perioperative
stroke risk. The decision generally remains a matter of
surgeon experience and preference.3
When a patient sustains a stroke during or immediately
following CEA, the chance of maximizing recovery depends
on early recognition of the neurologic event, establishing its
likely etiology, and immediate institution of appropriate
therapy or rescue measures.358,417 Establishing the diagnosis
of a perioperative stroke is typically a clinical diagnosis, but
may be supported by appropriate imaging studies.
Intraoperative stroke recognized upon awakening
from general anesthesia. When CEA is performed under
general anesthesia, a stroke is typically recognized when
the patient awakes after wound closure. If a new focal ipsilateral neurologic deﬁcit is identiﬁed, the incision should be
reopened immediately.417 The ICA can be assessed with
intraoperative Doppler in addition to visual inspection and
palpation. If the artery seems to be patent with ﬂow present,
further evaluation for technical deﬁcits should be performed with either intraoperative duplex ultrasound
examinaton or arteriography to identify correctable deﬁcits.
Angiography should include intracranial imaging to evaluate for distal intracerebral embolization. If the ICA is
without ﬂow, completely thrombosed, or an imaging study
reveals a signiﬁcant technical deﬁcit, the endarterectomy
site itself must be reexplored.417 The distal ICA should not be
clamped initially to appropriately perform repeat thromboendarterectomy without causing fracturing and intracerebral embolization of any local thrombus or debris. The
clot is carefully extracted with the hope that existing
backpressure will help to achieve complete removal of the
existing thrombus from the cervical ICA. If there is no back
bleeding, gentle meticulous balloon catheter thrombectomy can be performed, but there is a risk of causing a
carotid-cavernous sinus ﬁstula.419 Once thrombus has been
extracted and back bleeding occurs, the ICA can be safely
clamped. The endarterectomy site must be meticulously
inspected for any technical deﬁcits that may have caused
the thrombosis or embolization and these should be
repaired as necessary.358,417,418 Most surgeons recommend
shunt insertion during reexploration for a perioperative
stroke to limit the ischemic event during repair, but this
must be done extremely carefully under direct
visualization.358

If no defect or thrombosis is noted at the endarterectomy site, the stroke is likely related to either ischemia
that occurred while the carotid artery was clamped or
intraoperative embolization during the dissection. Intraoperative arteriography may demonstrate an intracerebral embolus. Catheter-directed thrombolysis or other
neurologic rescue techniques can be used to salvage
these situations and restore ﬂow to the intracerebral vessels. However, if the ICA seems to be normal at reexploration, and no large intracerebral embolus can be
identiﬁed, this ﬁnding suggests that the patient may
have experienced either embolization before carotid
clamping or sustained a signiﬁcant period of ischemia
during the clamping period. These etiologies may not
be formally treatable with surgical or endovascular techniques. Therefore, treatment is primarily medical,
including supportive care, hemodynamic monitoring,
and anticoagulation or antiplatelet agents as deemed
clinically appropriate.
Intraoperative stroke recognized during regional
anesthesia. If a perioperative stroke or TIA occurs during
CEA while the patient is awake under local/regional
anesthesia, stroke etiology can typically be elucidated
based on its timing during the operation. A neurologic
deﬁcit that occurs during dissection of the carotid bulb
before carotid clamping is almost certainly related to
embolization of atheromatous debris. This deﬁcit can
be minimized by avoiding signiﬁcant manipulation of
the bulb during dissection of the carotid artery until heparinization and control of the ICA has been established. If
a neurologic deﬁcit does occur during the preclamping
period, the patient should be expeditiously heparinized,
and the operation should be completed in an expedient
fashion with the placement of an intra-arterial shunt. If
the deﬁcit does not reverse with shunt placement and
completion of the surgery, additional assessment should
proceed as above, including intracerebral arteriography.
If, during local/regional anesthesia, neurologic changes
occur with test clamping of the artery, this is an indication for placement of an intra-arterial shunt. Neurologic
changes that occur during initial carotid clamping will
typically reverse with successful shunt placement. If they
do not, one must again consider the possibility that
intracerebral embolization has occurred.
Perioperative stroke recognized in the postoperative
period. If a patient awakens neurologically intact after
CEA under general anesthesia, or is initially neurologically intact during and after CEA under local anesthesia, and subsequently develops a new neurologic
deﬁcit in the postoperative period, the differential
diagnosis may be more complex. The likely etiology
and treatment may depend on the timing of the
deﬁcit. Neurologic deﬁcits that occur within the ﬁrst
few hours after completion of CEA after an initially
normal period are typically related to thromboembolization and technical defects at the endarterectomy

64S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

site. If the operation was performed under locoregional
anesthesia with the patient being tolerant of carotid
clamping, it is almost certain that an early deﬁcit is
related to embolization, and not complete thrombosis
of the artery. Although duplex scanning can be considered if it can be performed expeditiously, these patients will likely beneﬁt from immediate return to the
operating room for reexploration and assessment of
the ICA and endarterectomy site, as described elsewhere in this article. Alternatively, a neurologic deﬁcit
that occurs later in the postoperative course (1-3 days)
is more likely to be related to ICH or another cause of
stroke. A CT scan of the brain should be performed in
these patients to rule out ICH, particularly in patients
at increased risk.
As reported in an analysis of 2024 CEAs from a single
institution, the causes of 38 (1.9%) perioperative neurologic deﬁcits were clamping ischemia (13.2%), thromboembolic events (63.2%), ICH (13.2%), and miscellaneous
etiologies not directly related to the operated artery
(10.5%).358 Neurologic events that occurred in the initial
24 hours after surgery were signiﬁcantly more likely to
be caused by thromboembolic events, most commonly
related to technical imperfections at the endarterectomy
site. Most patients who experienced early events postoperatively underwent reexploration and intraluminal
thrombus was noted in 83.3% of these cases. After reexploration, there was either complete resolution of, or signiﬁcant improvement in the neurologic deﬁcit that
prompted reexploration.358
Cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome is a rare and potentially fatal cause of perioperative stroke after CEA. It is
characterized by severe ipsilateral headache, seizures,
and possible intracranial hemorrhage.420 A recent analysis showed that the overall risk of this syndrome was
an extremely low 0.18% of 51,001 CEAs.420 However, the
associated mortality was 38.2%. Multivariate analysis
revealed that female sex, recent ipsilateral stroke, and
contralateral stenosis of 70% or greater, postoperative
hypertension and postoperative hypotension were all
independently associated with cerebral hyperperfusion
syndrome, but postoperative blood pressure lability had
the strongest association.420
Summary and recommendations for the management of intraoperative or perioperative stroke with
CEA.
1. If a patient awakens from CEA under general anesthesia with a new focal neurologic deﬁcit related to
the ipsilateral cerebral hemisphere, immediate
reopening of the incision and evaluation of the ICA
is indicated.
2. If a patient awakens from CEA under general anesthesia, and reexploration and evaluation of the ICA reveals either thrombosis of the ICA or a technical
deﬁcit, the artery must be reexplored and repaired
as clinically warranted.

3. If technically feasible, a shunt should be inserted carefully and at the appropriate time during reexploration
of the artery for a perioperative stroke to limit the
extent of cerebral ischemia.
4. Treatment of the artery at reexploration can include
thrombectomy, thromboendarterectomy, correction
of any noted technical deﬁcits and/or intracerebral
arteriography based on the operative ﬁndings.
5. If there are no relevant ﬁndings at the endarterectomy
site on reexploration, and cerebral arteriography reveals intracerebral embolization, catheter directed
thrombolysis and/or other intracranial endovascular
“neurologic rescue” techniques can be considered as
deemed clinically warranted.
6. If a patient who is initially normal after CEA under
general anesthesia develops a new neurologic deﬁcit
in the early postoperative period, immediate evaluation and reexploration of the artery is indicated, unless
another cause of stroke is conﬁrmed.
7. If a patient who is initially normal after CEA under
general anesthesia develops a new neurologic deﬁcit
later in the postoperative period, additional evaluation including a CT scan of the brain to rule out ICH
is indicated before consideration of reexploration.
8. If reexploration for an intraoperative or perioperative
stroke following CEA does not reveal any cause at
the endarterectomy site or on intracerebral arterial
imaging, medical management is indicated.
9. If a patient develops a new neurologic deﬁcit intraoperatively during CEA under locoregional anesthesia,
surgical management should proceed as appropriate
based upon the timing of the event as related to the
intraoperative course of the operation.
10. If a patient who is initially normal after CEA under
locoregional anesthesia with tolerance of carotid
clamping develops an ipsilateral focal neurologic
deﬁcit, immediate reexploration of the artery and
appropriate treatment is indicated, unless another
cause of stroke can be strongly considered.
11. For early acute stroke (1-2 days) after CEA, immediate
imaging (ultrasound examination or CTA) is indicated
to evaluate the endarterectomy site. When imaging
suggests thrombosis, is indeterminate, or not available, immediate operative reexploration is indicated.
12. For early acute stroke after CEA, if the endarterectomy
site is found to be patent without abnormalities, other
modalities such as a CT scan and/or arteriography
should be used to better identify the cause of the
stroke. If no deﬁnitive cause of stroke is found, anticoagulation is appropriate if a CT scan has excluded
intracranial hemorrhage.
Stroke after CAS
Stroke after stenting: the role of thrombectomy and
thrombolysis. The most feared complication after CAS is
stroke, which can be due to cerebral embolism or intracranial hemorrhage. In most clinical trials, stroke presentation occurred in the ﬁrst 24 hours following CAS. It is for
this reason that it is imperative to monitor all CAS

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

65S

Volume 75, Number 1S

patients in the intensive care setting postoperatively.
Stroke diagnosis is usually clinical. In patients with postoperative neurologic changes, carotid ultrasound examination, CTA, or MRI/MRA should be obtained
immediately to evaluate stent patency, and determine
if there is distal embolization or ICH. Management of
acute stroke is described in the Acute Stroke section of
these guidelines. However, acute stroke during or immediately
after
CAS
might
require
immediate
reintervention.
Distal embolization. If the embolic material is large
enough to cause MCA occlusion, catheter-based thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (tPA),
GPIIB/IIIA inhibitor, and thrombectomy with stent retrieval
should be considered. There is strong evidence that recanalizing the MCA with mechanical thrombectomy dramatically increases survival and functional outcomes.421 However,
the latter studies included patients with acute stroke in
general, not after CAS speciﬁcally. Updated AHA guidelines
recommend endovascular intervention with stent retriever/
aspiration within 6 hours of onset of stroke for patients with
an occluded ICA or middle MCA.422
Intracranial hemorrhage. This complication of CAS is
rare. In the National Impatient Sample database, the risk
of intracranial hemorrhage is 6-fold higher in CAS
compared with CEA.423 However, these results have not
been conﬁrmed in large clinical trials.8 Hypertensive patients with symptomatic and bilateral carotid artery stenoses have been shown to have increased risk of
developing intracranial hemorrhage after CAS.424 One
study showed that patients on beta blockers before CAS
had 65% lower risk of stroke and death if they developed
hypertension postoperatively.62 Before the initiation of the
CAS procedure, all patients should be fully anticoagulated
with intravenous unfractionated heparin, preferably at 80
to 100 U/kg of dose. The activated clotting time should be
followed not to exceed 300 seconds to prevent risk of
hemorrhagic stroke secondary to reperfusion after CAS.425
Acute stent thrombosis. This complication is an acute
emergency with an increased risk of embolic stroke, and
it can be due to carotid artery recoiling, stent misplacement, poor sizing or massive plaque protrusion through
stent struts. Treatment of acute stent thrombosis usually
involves conversion to CEA. However, because many of
these patients are at high risk for CEA, endovascular
intervention with catheter-based thrombolysis and
thrombectomy may be considered. This allows use of
cerebral angiography to evaluate distal embolization as
well as the use of stent retrieval thrombectomy.
Carotid artery dissection
Dissection can be largely avoided with meticulous
techniques. This complication should be identiﬁed on
the completion angiogram. If the dissection occurs
distally and is ﬂow limiting, a second stent can be
placed in the true lumen overlapping with the initial

stent. In CCA dissection after TCAR, the same stent or
an additional stent can be extended as proximal as
possible to the tip of the sheath. Conversion to CEA
is rarely needed. Engaging the ECA when possible, dilatation of the anterior wall of CCA with a 9F dilator as
well as maintaining the 0.035 wire access, reduce risk
of dissection during insertion of the arterial sheath during TCAR.
Cerebral hyperperfusion
This complication is rare, occurring in 1% to 2% of patients undergoing CAS. Patients typically present with
headache. Diagnosis can be made on CT imaging
revealing ipsilateral cerebral edema without any evidence of stroke. Treatment is largely supportive, focusing
on controlling blood pressure and maintaining adequate
cerebral perfusion. Additional details concerning management of hyperperfusion syndrome are discussed in
other sections of these guidelines.
Summary and recommendations for treatment of
stroke after CAS.
Acute CAS complication.
1. Stroke owing to MCA occlusion owing to embolization after CAS should be treated with mechanical
thrombectomy and thrombolysis.
2. Acute carotid stent occlusion should be treated with
immediate recanalization and cerebral angiography
with potential mechanical thrombectomy and
thrombolysis, which may include thrombus aspiration
and ﬁlter removal.
3. Aggressive post-PTA should be avoided when
possible to decrease hemodynamic depression and
the risk of stroke.
Hemodynamic instability: Post-CEA hypertension and
hypotension
Blood pressure instability after CEA is a risk factor for cerebrovascular and cardiovascular complications.323 Carotid baroreceptors are mainly localized in the
adventitial layer of the proximal ICA,323,426 and these receptors play a signiﬁcant role in moderating increases
and decreases in blood pressure.427 Denervation of the
carotid sinus nerve during CEA can signiﬁcantly increase
risk of postoperative hypertension.323 Hypertension in the
postoperative period is much more common than hypotension. ECEA has been shown to increase risk of hypertension, while CCEA may increase overall risk of
hypotension.323
Hemodynamic instability is common after CEA, and
can result either from signiﬁcant cardiac-related complications or, more commonly, from disordered baroreceptor function.417 Both hypertension and hypotension
can
be
associated
with
impaired
clinical
outcome.227,323,428,429 Hypotension is less common and
is often accompanied by bradycardia. Removal of

66S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

plaque from the carotid bifurcation has been hypothesized to impair normal baroreceptor mechanisms. Reﬂex hypotension following endarterectomy can persist
until the carotid sinus mechanisms has readjusted.
CEA can result in direct surgical damage to the baroreceptor nerves located at the carotid bifurcation323,430 or
to the compensatory restoration of the baroreﬂex
mechanism caused by removal of the bifurcation plaque.323,430,431 Signiﬁcant hypotension can result in postoperative global cerebral ischemia in predisposed
patients. A recent meta-analysis found that post-CEA
hypertension requiring vasodilator therapy was 53.8%
after
ECEA
and
40.3%
after
conventional
endarterectomy.323
Postoperative hypertension is closely related to presence of preoperative hypertension, but its mechanism
following CEA is not well-characterized. Signiﬁcant postoperative hypertension can increase risk of other postCEA complications, including myocardial ischemia, ICH,
and wound hematoma.432 Appropriate management of
both postoperative hypertension and hypotension can
help decrease the incidence of other associated postoperative morbidities.
To appropriately treat hemodynamic instability after
CEA, patient observation in a monitored unit with either
an indwelling radial artery catheter of systemic blood
pressure monitoring is generally recommended in the
initial postoperative period.417 Hypotension should be
treated initially with ﬂuid administration to achieve a
euvolemic state. If hypotension persists without other hemodynamic causes, blood pressure support with an
intravenous infusion of phenylephrine is generally recommended.417 Vasoconstrictors can typically be weaned
within 24 hours after surgery.
Postoperative hypertension is generally treated with
intravenous sodium nitroprusside. 417 Associated
myocardial ischemia should be treated as appropriate. Most patients can resume their preoperative
oral antihypertensive medications within 24 hours
following surgery, and this often reduces the need
for
additional
intravenous
pharmacological
management. 417
Summary and recommendations for the management of postoperative hemodynamic instability after
CEA.
1. Signiﬁcant postoperative hypertension or hypotension should be evaluated carefully by appropriate hemodynamic monitoring during the initial post-CEA
period.
2. Postoperative hypotension without other obvious hemodynamic etiologies should be treated with intravenous vasoconstrictors, typically phenylephrine, to
achieve a normal blood pressure until hypotension
resolves.
3. Postoperative hypertension should be treated with
intravenous
vasodilators,
typically
sodium

nitroprusside, to achieve a normal blood pressure until hypertension resolves.
4. Selected patients with signiﬁcant hemodynamic
instability post-CEA should be carefully monitored
for associated complications including myocardial
ischemia and ICH.
Post-CAS hemodynamic depression
Hypotension with bradycardia is not uncommon after
CAS owing to stretching of the carotid baroreceptors with
angioplasty and stenting. This complication is increased
four-fold with poststent balloon dilatation.390 Therefore,
careful monitoring of the patient’s blood pressure and
heart rate is necessary. An arterial pressure monitor connected to the intervention sheath or a separate arterial
line allows for continuous blood pressure monitoring.366
Hemodynamic depression can increase stroke risk owing
to cerebral hypoperfusion in general and inadequate ﬂow
reversal in TCAR speciﬁcally. Atropine (0.4 to 1.0 mg) is often
used to prevent hemodynamic depression during angioplasty of the carotid bulb. Glycopyrrolate (0.4 mg) is an
alternative to atropine because it is associated with fewer
coronary side effects. Volume resuscitation followed by
epinephrine or dopamine can be used in patients with
persistent or refractory postoperative hypotension. Some
risk factors for persistent hypotension include type of stenosis, echogenic plaque morphology, carotid calciﬁcation
and distance from carotid bifurcation to maximum stenotic lesion (#10 mm).433 It is unusual for patients who
have had prior CEA to have signiﬁcant bradycardia because
the normal innervation of the carotid baroreceptor is interrupted during the initial procedure.434 In these cases, glycopyrrolate or atropine is administered only if hypotension or
bradycardia ensue.366
CNI after CEA
Although a CNI is likely the most common complication after CEA, it is typically mild, self-limited, and
without prolonged or signiﬁcant clinical sequelae. The
reported incidence ranges from 5% to 20%.417,435-438 In
a prospective study of patients who underwent CEA
and postoperative laryngoscopy evaluations, cranial
nerve injuries were found in 11.4% of 656 carotid operations.436 However, approximately one-third of the patients with documented cranial nerve injuries
diagnosed by otolaryngology examination were clinically
asymptomatic. In the CREST trial, the incidence of CNI
was 4.7%. However, there was no signiﬁcant adverse
impact of CNI on patient quality of life at 1 year after surgery.5,439 The most commonly injured nerves include, in
decreasing order of incidence, the hypoglossal, recurrent
laryngeal, superior laryngeal, marginal mandibular, glossopharyngeal, and spinal accessory nerves.417,435
In another study, a vast majority of CNIs were transient.
Only 47 patients (0.7%) had a persistent CNI at their
follow-up visit (median, 10.0 months; range, 0.3-

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

67S

Volume 75, Number 1S

15.6 months). Predictors for CNI included urgent procedures (OR, 1.6), immediate reexploration after closure under the same anesthetic (OR, 2.0), and return to the
operating room for a neurologic event or bleeding (OR,
2.3).435
The most appropriate way to avoid CNI is with appropriate knowledge of the relevant anatomy and meticulous identiﬁcation and protection of the nervous
structures during the conduct of the operation. Sharp
dissection close to the arterial wall, and strict adherence
to some general surgical rules, including careful use of forceps, retractors, cautery, and arterial clamps is mandatory.
Perioperative dexamethasone administration has been
shown to reduce risk of temporary CNIs during CEA
without reducing the prevalence of permanent CNIs.440
However, there is a remarkable paucity of data concerning
treatment of CNIs once they have happened.250
Nerve injury is most often caused by blunt stretch injury
to the nerves, which can occur with excessive traction;
frank nerve transection is extremely rare. Injury can also
result from electrocautery damage, inadvertent clamping, or from direct nerve transection.417 Nerve injury
may be more common during reoperative carotid surgery. Use of an intraoperative vagal nerve stimulator
may be helpful during reoperative carotid surgery to try
to avoid injury related to scar tissue.417
Iatrogenic CNI that occurs during CEA is most often
managed expectantly. Unilateral hypoglossal injury is
rarely serious.417 Vagus or recurrent laryngeal nerve
injury can result in paralysis of the ipsilateral vocal
cord, and typically manifests as hoarseness. Superior
laryngeal nerve injury can manifest by voice fatigue
and difﬁculty with voice modulation. The marginal
mandibular branch of the facial nerve may be injured
from traction during surgery or from administration of
cervical block anesthetic, and manifests as dropping
of the ipsilateral lip.417 Importantly, this should not be
confused with a postoperative stroke that may produce
facial asymmetry. Transient paresthesia of the marginal
mandibular nerve can be cosmetically upsetting to the
affected patient.
Summary and recommendations for the management of CNI after CEA. Cranial nerve injuries are best
avoided by meticulous knowledge of the relevant anatomy and careful dissection to prevent injury to contiguous nervous structures.
1. Once a CNI is diagnosed, expectant management is
typically indicated.
2. In rare cases, vocal cord paralysis may require otolaryngologic intervention, and bilateral vocal cord paralysis may require tracheotomy.
3. Vocal cord evaluation might be advisable in patients
with bilateral carotid stenosis post ﬁrst CEA and
before contralateral CEA.
4. In rare cases, critical glossopharyngeal nerve injury
may produce severe dysphagia and/or aspiration

and may require placement of a feeding gastrostomy
tube.
Myocardial infarction and renal insufﬁciency
Patients undergoing CEA have a high prevalence of
concomitant coronary artery disease. Although frank MI
is unusual after CEA, MI is responsible for 25% to 50%
of perioperative deaths following CEA.441,442 The incidence of perioperative MI and resultant mortality has
likely decreased in the past several decades owing to
improved screening and treatment of pre-existing coronary disease as well as improved perioperative medical
management.417 Appropriate medical management of
the CEA patient is critical to reduce risk of perioperative
MI and cardiac mortality, and should include standard
antihypertensive medications, statin medications, and
antiplatelet therapy.417 Although beta blockers should
be continued in patients who have been on the medication chronically, routine use of routine beta blockers is
controversial. It may be reasonable to begin perioperative beta blockers in speciﬁc patient groups (see section
on the perioperative management of patients undergoing CEA).
Either single or dual antiplatelet therapy should be
continued in the perioperative period for CEA to
decrease the risk of both stroke and perioperative MI,
particularly in patients with known preexisting coronary
artery disease or prior percutaneous coronary procedures. The American College of Cardiology Perioperative
Guidelines endorses continuation of aspirin during the
period surrounding CEA.443 The risk of periprocedural
MI from aspirin withdrawal likely outweighs risk of severe
bleeding from aspirin continuation.3 Patients on clopidogrel may require individualized management. Clopidogrel may be safely continued through the
perioperative period without a signiﬁcantly increased
risk of major bleeding.165 Discontinuation of dual antiplatelet therapy may signiﬁcantly increase risk of coronary stent thrombosis and MI, particularly in the setting
of drug-eluting stents.444
Preoperative statin therapy can signiﬁcantly reduce
perioperative mortality and MI after CEA.152,153 In a systematic review and meta-analysis, statin users undergoing CEA were at signiﬁcantly lower risk of perioperative
death compared with statin-naïve patients.445 However,
a corresponding difference in risk of perioperative MI
was not observed. Nevertheless, use of perioperative
statin medications is generally recommended.
Labile blood pressure is common in the postoperative
period following CEA. Aggressive monitoring and appropriate pharmacologic treatment of both hypotension
and hypertension is recommended to reduce risk of
related morbidity, including myocardial ischemia. For
patients with known severe preexisting coronary artery
disease, obtaining routine postoperative electrocardiograms and cardiac enzymes may be considered.446

68S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

Patients with clinical, electrocardiogram or other evidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction in the postoperative period following CEA should be treated by
accepted pharmacologic techniques, and urgent cardiac
catheterization should be considered in appropriate
patients.447
The risk of cardiovascular complications after CAS is
very minimal compared with CEA. Data from randomized trials demonstrate signiﬁcantly lower numbers of
periprocedural MIs after stenting.5,7,8 Performing CAS under local anesthesia is associated with signiﬁcantly lower
risk of MI and other cardiac complications.365
The use of a higher contrast load with CAS, as opposed
to CEA, can lead to contrast-induced nephropathy, especially in CKD patients. The amount of contrast used during the procedure should be minimized and not exceed
60 mL. Adequate ﬂuid resuscitation should be provided
to minimize risk of acute kidney failure.
Summary and recommendations for the management of perioperative MI risk after CEA.
1. Perioperative MI after CEA is best avoided by appropriate preoperative treatment of relevant atherosclerotic risk factors, screening for coronary artery
disease when appropriate, and standard pharmacologic management of atherosclerosis during the perioperative period.
2. All patients undergoing CEA should be treated with a
statin medication, unless a contraindication exists.
3. All patients undergoing CEA should be maintained
on either single or dual antiplatelet medication
throughout the perioperative period, unless a contraindication exists.
4. Patient with a coronary drug-eluting stent should be
maintained on dual antiplatelet medications whenever feasible.
5. Early recognition of perioperative MI should occur to
allow appropriate individualized therapy including
medical or pharmacologic interventions, or urgent
cardiac catheterization/percutaneous coronary intervention when deemed appropriate.
Wound hematoma after CEA
The reported incidence of signiﬁcant perioperative
bleeding after CEA is 0.7% to 3.0%.417 Most cases of clinically signiﬁcant bleeding result from diffuse capillary or
soft tissue oozing owing to intraoperative heparinization
and/or antiplatelet agents. At the completion of CEA,
administration of protamine to achieve heparin reversal
seems to decrease the incidence of signiﬁcant wound
hematoma.248 Although many vascular surgeons
routinely use drains after CEA, there has been no demonstrable decrease in risk of reexploration for bleeding
when drains are used.45
In a retrospective study of 384 patients, preoperative
clopidogrel therapy and not using protamine sulfate after heparin were identiﬁed as risk factors for hematoma.448 Upon reexploration, venous bleeding or

capillary oozing were more common ﬁndings than arterial bleeding from the site of vascular repair, and difﬁculty
with intubation because of tracheal deviation was prevalent. The authors recommend that airway management
for reexploration should include a laryngeal mask airway,
partial wound reexploration with hematoma evacuation
under initial local anesthesia, subsequent intubation for
general anesthesia, and ﬁnally complete wound exploration to achieve hemostasis.448
Although small asymptomatic wound hematomas or
ecchymosis may be carefully observed, larger hematomas that result from frank surgical bleeding can be
catastrophic. The presence of an enlarging hematoma
may result in stridor and airway compromise, and mandates emergency evacuation to avoid respiratory arrest.
A relatively small amount of blood in the closed space
of the neck may cause airway compromise. If the patient is in clear respiratory distress, opening the incision
at the bedside to evacuate the hematoma and relieve
airway obstruction can be lifesaving. Under more
controlled circumstances, emergency transport to the
operating room is advised. Awake ﬁberoptic endotracheal intubation may be required to safely intubate
the patient in the presence of a compressed airway.
Rarely, emergency cricothyroidotomy may be required.
Once the airway has been secured, reexploration
should proceed in an organized fashion with assessment and appropriate surgical treatment of any hemorrhage sources.
Summary and recommendations for the management of wound hematoma after CEA. Avoidance of
wound hematoma is best accomplished using meticulous surgical technique and appropriate methods of
achieving hemostasis.
1. Protamine should be considered to reverse heparinization; decisions on its use may depend on how
much heparin was administered, clinical examination
of the wound for appropriate hemostasis, and other
factors including the use of antiplatelet medications.
2. Small, asymptomatic hematomas in the perioperative
period may be safely observed.
3. Symptomatic or enlarging hematomas should undergo operative reexploration and treatment to avoid
airway compromise.
4. Patients with large hematomas in respiratory distress
may require reopening of the incision at the bedside
to evacuate the hematoma and prevent respiratory
arrest.
5. Intubation in the setting of a large neck hematoma
may require awake ﬁberoptic intubation or other
techniques to manage airway compromise.
Late complications after CEA
Prosthetic patch infection. Infectious complications
are extremely rare after CEA. The reported risk of wound
infection or cellulitis ranges from 0.09% to 0.15%.417

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

69S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Prosthetic patch infection is even rarer, but true incidence is unknown. In a systematic review, 77 cases of
graft infection were reported.449 There are reported associations between postoperative wound hematoma
and early prosthetic patch infections.449 In one series,
80% of patients who presented with prosthetic patch
infection within 9 weeks of surgery had documented
wound complications in the perioperative period.450
Other patient-related factors that may increase risk of
patch infection include immunosuppression, and poor
general or dental hygiene. Patch infection has been reported after dental or other procedures, which may carry
a risk of transient bacteremia.451 As a result, some practitioners recommend routine antibiotic prophylaxis for
patients with prosthetic carotid patches before undergoing invasive or dental procedures.452
There seems to be a bimodal distribution of time to
presentation.449,451 Early patch infections may present
with typical wound cellulitis. The signs associated with
late patch infection may be more insidious, and can
include localized edema, facial swelling, the appearance
of a draining sinus tract, or a neck mass owing to inﬂammation or phlegmonous changes, or the formation of a
related pseudoaneurysm. The most commonly involved
organisms are Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus.449,451
Untreated prosthetic patch infections can result in
localized sepsis and ultimately in pseudoaneurysm formation with rupture of the patch and uncontrolled hemorrhage. Therefore, surgical management is imperative
when a documented prosthetic patch infection has
been diagnosed. Preoperative imaging studies should
include appropriate blood cultures and imaging, typically with duplex scanning and CTA. Presumptive antibiotics directed toward common organisms should be
started.
Surgical intervention should include removal of all
infected prosthetic material and establishing revascularization with autologous materials. Autologous vein patch
angioplasty or interposition vein graft reconstruction are
commonly used. Rarely, carotid artery ligation may be
required. Surgical management can be challenging,
and it is complicated by inﬂammation and scar tissue
related to the primary surgical procedure, as well as
localized sepsis and inﬂammatory changes. In some
cases where the soft tissue or skin is severely compromised, a rotational muscle or myocutaneous ﬂap should
be considered to achieve adequate coverage of the
vascular reconstruction or ligated vessels.
Summary and recommendations for the management of prosthetic patch infection after CEA.
1. In patients who have undergone CEA with prosthetic
patch angioplasty reconstruction, empirical prophylactic antibiotics should be considered during dental

and other procedures with a reasonable risk of transient bacteremia.
2. Perioperative antibiotics should be administered
routinely during primary CEA.
3. Wound cellulitis in the immediate perioperative
period should be treated with appropriate antibiotic
therapy and close monitoring.
4. The presence of atypical wound edema, swelling, a
mass, or sinus in the neck should be evaluated
promptly in patients with prior CEA.
5. Investigative studies for suspected prosthetic patch
infection should include duplex scanning and CTA,
as well as appropriate laboratory and infectious disease studies.
6. Presumptive antibiotics directed toward common
pathogens should be started in patients with suspected prosthetic patch infection.
7. In patients with a documented patch infection, operative management is indicated. Prosthetic material
must be excised, and arterial reconstruction performed using autologous material. Appropriate soft
tissue coverage must be assured, using rotational
muscle ﬂaps or myocutaneous ﬂaps if necessary.
8. Temporary use of covered stent in cases of infection
and patch blowout as a bridge to a more controlled
operation may be considered.
Restenosis after CEA
Recurrent carotid artery stenosis following CEA is reported to occur in 5% to 22% of patients.417 However,
very few (3%) of these recurrent stenoses are symptomatic, and few typically require reintervention.417,453-455 As
reported in the CREST study, the risk of signiﬁcant restenosis or occlusion was 6.3% at 2 years.453
Recurrent stenosis is more likely to occur in certain
patient subgroups, including women, active smokers,
patients who undergo initial endarterectomy at a
young age, and in patients with hypercholesterolemia,
diabetes, and hypertension.455-458 Additionally, some
technical factors at the time of the initial CEA may
contribute to the development of residual stenosis or
subsequent restenosis. These include clamp injury,
use of an intraluminal shunt, or placement of tacking
sutures at the distal end point of the endarterectomy
site.459
With regard to decreasing the incidence of signiﬁcant
restenosis, there are signiﬁcant data in the literature to
substantiate a recommendation for patch angioplasty
or eversion endarterectomy over standard endarterectomy with primary closure of the artery.3 A metaanalysis of randomized trials comparing bovine pericardium and other patch materials for CEA did not ﬁnd
any signiﬁcant differences in the rates of late restenosis.310 A systematic review of randomized controlled trials
of patch angioplasty vs primary closure found that patch
angioplasty seemed to decrease the risk of perioperative
death or stroke, late ipsilateral stroke, and late recurrent
stenosis.269

70S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

Recurrent stenosis after CEA seems to have two distinct
patterns of presentation. Early recurrent stenosis usually
develops within two years of primary CEA and typically
results from neointimal hyperplasia.3,417,455 This usually
develops at the site of endarterectomy and is felt to
have a lower thromboembolic potential to cause stroke
than recurrent frank atherosclerotic disease. Therefore,
the threshold for reintervention is high, and these lesions
are typically observed unless they become pre-occlusive
or symptomatic, which is infrequent. Restenoses that
occur after 2 to 3 years after primary CEA typically represent recurrent atherosclerotic lesions.417,455 Indications
for treatment of late recurrent carotid stenosis owing to
atherosclerotic disease are typically similar to those for
de novo carotid lesions.
Before the advent of carotid stenting, repeat carotid
surgery was the standard treatment for symptomatic or
severe recurrent stenosis that required reintervention
for stroke prevention. However, scar tissue in the reoperative ﬁeld can make the operation more technically
demanding, and a higher incidence of CNI and other
complications have been reported.417 However, in general, reoperative carotid surgery can be performed safely,
and has good durability.455
Nevertheless, the increased technical difﬁculty with reoperative carotid surgery has led many to recommend
CAS as the preferred procedure for recurrent carotid stenosis.417 A recent systematic review and meta-analysis of
4399 patients who underwent either redo carotid surgery
or CAS for recurrent carotid stenosis found no differences
in risk of perioperative mortality or stroke.460 Patients
who underwent redo CEA had higher risk of cranial nerve
injuries, but most recovered in three months. However,
risk of a secondary episode of recurrent stenosis was
greater in patients whose initial restenosis was treated
with CAS.
Several studies addressed perioperative and late outcomes of open surgical and endovascular treatment of
post-CEA restenosis, and demonstrated acceptable results with either technique.461 However, in many of these
studies, CAS was typically used for early lesions related to
neointimal hyperplasia, while redo CEA was preferred in
cases of late restenosis owing to recurrent atherosclerotic
lesions. Early restenosis is typically a ﬁbrous lesion that is
thought to have a low potential for embolization and
stroke. By contrast, late recurrent stenoses owing to
atherosclerotic lesions are typically associated with a
higher embolic risk. Many authors recommend reintervention in cases of moderate and severe symptomatic
recurrent stenosis, as well as severe preocclusive or progressive asymptomatic restenosis.
There seems to be an established relationship between
restenosis and late ipsilateral stroke.461,462 In a systematic
review and meta-analysis of studies with a mean of
37 months of surveillance, 13 of 141 CEA patients (9.2%)

with a restenosis of greater than 70% or occlusion suffered a late ipsilateral stroke compared with 33 of 2669
patients (1.2%) who did not have a restenosis of greater
than 70% or occlusion. Nevertheless, 97% of all late ipsilateral strokes after CAS and 85% after CEA occurred in
patients without evidence of signiﬁcant restenosis or
occlusion.462
Summary and recommendations for the management of restenosis after CEA.
1. The use of patch angioplasty or eversion endarterectomy is generally preferred over conventional endarterectomy with primary closure to reduce the
incidence of recurrent carotid stenosis, particularly in
women or patients with small diameter ICAs.
2. Early recurrent stenosis after CEA can generally be
managed expectantly unless it is symptomatic, progressive or a very high grade/preocclusive lesion
($80%).
3. Late recurrent stenosis after CEA should be considered for reintervention with similar parameters as primary CEA in both symptomatic and asymptomatic
cases.
4. Reintervention for recurrent stenosis after CEA can
involve either redo endarterectomy/carotid artery
reconstruction or carotid stenting procedures based
upon the particular patient, clinical scenario and relevant anatomy.

Restenosis after CAS
Incidence. In-stent restenosis can be identiﬁed on
routine follow-up by duplex ultrasound examination.
Factors predisposing to in-stent restenosis are both mechanical and patient-related, but the most important is
the neointimal thickening within stent struts, leading to
lumen reduction.463 Late de novo atherosclerosis or
progressive atherosclerosis is also a common cause.
Available data on incidence, predictors, diagnostic
approach, and therapeutic strategies of restenosis after
CAS are poor and inconsistent.463 The incidence of carotid in-stent stenosis has been reported to vary between
1% and 30%, and might be slightly overestimated by
conventional duplex ultrasound examination.464,465 In
the EVA-3S trial, recurrent carotid stenosis (>70% as
deﬁned by duplex ultrasound examination), was 11.1% at
2 years after CAS, signiﬁcantly higher than after CEA
(4.6%; P ¼ .001).465 In contrast, a secondary analysis of the
Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy vs Stenting
Trial (CREST) trial showed no signiﬁcant difference in
restenosis or revascularization risk at 2 or 10 years after
CAS (12.2%) and CEA (9.7%).453 The systematic review and
meta-analysis done by Kumar et al462 on restenosis after
carotid intervention and its relationship with recurrent
ipsilateral stroke showed that in 11 randomized trials
(4249 patients) of CEA that followed patients over a
mean of 47 months, the occurrence of greater than 70%
restenosis or occlusion was 5.8% (95% CI, 4.1-8.2). In ﬁve

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

71S

Volume 75, Number 1S

randomized trials (1078 patients), restenosis risk of
greater than 70%/occlusion after patch CEA over a mean
of 32 months was 4.1% (95% CI, 2-8.4).462 In six randomized trials (2916 patients) over a mean follow-up of
60 months, the occurrence of restenosis greater than
70%/occlusion in patients undergoing CAS or PTA was
10.3% (95% CI, 6.0-16.4). In ﬁve trials (2,716 patients) and
over a mean follow-up of 62 months restenosis risk
greater than 70%/occlusion was 10% (95% CI, 6.0-16.3) in
patients having CAS. The same study showed that over a
mean of 50 months of surveillance, 1 of 125 CAS patients
(0.8%) with restenosis greater than 70%/occlusion suffered a late ipsilateral stroke compared with 37 of 1839
CAS patients (2%) who did not have greater than 70%
restenosis. Female sex, diabetes, and dyslipidemia were
independent predictors of restenosis or occlusion after
the two procedures.453
Diagnosis
Duplex ultrasound examination is frequently used for
routine follow-up after CAS. The degree of lumen diameter reduction, peak systolic velocity, end-diastolic velocity, and the ratio of peak ICA to CCA velocity (ICA/CCA
ratio) are the most common parameters used to quantify
stenosis. In selected cases when results of duplex ultrasound examination are inconclusive, CTA is required. Discrepancies in results with either of these techniques
should be conﬁrmed using DSA.463
However, deﬁnitive criteria for diagnosis of restenosis after CAS have not yet been established and there are few
data on the natural history of in-stent restenosis. Evidence from recent studies suggests that criteria used
for diagnosing an atherosclerotic stenosis of the carotid
artery cannot be easily applied to in-stent restenosis.464
This is due to the distinct biomechanical properties of
the stented artery and its enhanced stiffness which results in increased ﬂow velocity. Recent analysis proposed
adjusted criteria for deﬁning stenosis in stented arteries.464,466,467 A review of 14 studies suggested
recording Doppler parameters of the recently stented
vessel soon after CAS and using these values as the patient’s reference point. This new reference point will
guide future routine surveillance scans.468
Clinical impact
The clinical impact of signiﬁcant restenosis after CAS is
uncertain, but neointimal hyperplasia seems to be associated with reduced potential for embolization
compared with native lesions.467,469 In most trials, a
higher incidence of in-stent restenosis during follow-up
did not impact complication rates, suggesting that it
might be a relatively benign disease.465,470,471 However,
analysis of the CREST trial showed greater risk for

ipsilateral stroke after the periprocedural period up to
the end of follow-up period in patients who had restenosis or occlusion within 2 years compared with those who
did not have restenosis (HR, 4.37; 95% CI, 1.91-10.03; P ¼
.0005, adjusted for age, sex, and symptomatic status).453
A meta-analysis of surveillance data from a randomized
trial involving CEA/CAS demonstrated that patients who
had CAS had a 10% incidence of greater than 70% stenosis/occlusion at mean follow-up of 62 months. Notably,
only 1 of 125 were associated with an ipsilateral stroke.462
Management
The management of patients with recurrent stenosis after CAS is clinically challenging, and no consensus on the
best treatment modality is currently available.472 Owing
to its low incidence, no prospective study has compared
treatment options for in-stent restenosis. The choice
should therefore be made on a case-by-case basis with
careful analysis of lesion features and the patient’s proﬁle.
In the future, adequately powered trials using a uniform
deﬁnition and standardized workup for in-stent restenosis are s necessary to determine the appropriateness of
interventions for in-stent restenosis.
According to the available literature, in-stent restenosis
can be successfully treated with surgical interventions
(endarterectomy with stent removal in some cases) as
well as with endovascular techniques.472 Tight management of diabetes, dyslipidemia, and smoking cessation
remain potent targets for preventing and improving outcomes for patients with in-stent restenosis.473 However,
medical therapy alone should be chosen only in asymptomatic patients and patients with high-risk lesions
where invasive treatment is high-risk based on the patient’s clinical status and comorbidities.
Endovascular treatment, such as PTA with simple
balloon, cutting-balloon, drug-eluting balloon, and stenting, is recommended as the ﬁrst choice wherever
possible, mainly because it is the less invasive option
and has good results. Although PTA is a common treatment for in-stent restenosis, recurrent restenosis seems
to limit the durability, leading to recurrent interventions
and associated cost implications.472 An analysis of the
VQI database showed no signiﬁcant differences in 1year stroke, death, and stroke/death between primary
CAS and redo CAS. Moreover, the odds of bradycardia
and hypotension were lower after redo CAS compared
with primary CAS.434 Drug-eluting techniques are
emerging and may become the preferred treatment option, but long-term follow-up is needed to evaluate their
efﬁcacy.472
In contrast, CEA should be avoided in asymptomatic
patients with serious systemic disease. Analysis of 645 patients with in-stent restenosis in the VQI database

72S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

showed no signiﬁcant differences in perioperative and 1year outcomes between CEA vs restenting or PTA. However, CEA was offered to patients who are more severely
ill than redo CAS, resulting in signiﬁcantly higher mortality (3.7% vs 0.9%; P ¼ .02).473
Summary and recommendations for treatment of
restenosis following CAS.
1. Most asymptomatic patients (>70% restenosis)
should be treated with aggressive medical
management.
2. Symptomatic patients and progressive lesions should
be offered an endovascular option ﬁrst.
3. Evidence on PTA vs drug-coated balloon vs restenting is lacking.

MISCELLANEOUS
Acute carotid occlusion
Acute carotid occlusion commonly presents with cerebral or retinal ischemia, and is associated with poor clinical outcomes.474-476 Acute carotid occlusion represents
6% to 15% of patients with acute ischemic stroke.477 Patients usually bear high National Institutes of Health
Stroke Scale scores because of severe neurologic deﬁcits,
with only 2% to 12% achieving good recovery, 40% to
69% having a severe deﬁcit, and 16% to 55% dying from
infarction.478-480 Carotid occlusion can occur after carotid stenting or endarterectomy owing to technical
problems or it may result from underlying cardiac pathology such as atrial ﬁbrillation. Female sex, age, history
of embolism, and higher B-type natriuretic peptide levels
have been identiﬁed as risk factors for proximal carotid
axis occlusion in patients with atrial ﬁbrillation.481
Acute ICA occlusion is a therapeutic challenge because
of poor neurologic outcome and paucity of effective
therapeutic options.482 Treatment of acute ICA occlusion
needs to be individualized. No large, controlled trials
have examined the efﬁcacy of any treatment approach.
Patients presenting with stroke should be admitted to
a stroke unit. Hypotension should be avoided because
it might severely compromise cerebral perfusion in the
context of ICA occlusion. In contrast, hypertension
should not be corrected in the acute phase unless it is
in a malignant range. Short-term (approximately
6 weeks) anticoagulation with heparin and warfarin followed by antiplatelet drugs might be used to decrease
embolization from the fresh clot. However, evidence for
this strategy is unavailable.482
In patients presenting early (<3 hours) and up to 5 to
6 hours after the onset of stroke with no evidence of cerebral hemorrhage or a large infarction on brain imaging,
intravenous thrombolysis using recombinant tPA may be
considered. Thrombolytic treatment using a combination of intravenous and intra-arterial routes or using the
intra-arterial only route has been reported to be effective

in distal ICA occlusion, particularly when given soon after
the onset of stroke. However, the efﬁcacy of IV tPA has
been debated because it is associated with poor recanalization in the case of large clots and secondary to the
slow distal ﬂow in patients with acute ICA occlusion.475,477,483 Several factors may inﬂuence IV tPA treatment outcomes among patients with ICA occlusion.
First, because the rate of ﬁbrinolysis depends on the pressure gradient to which the clot is exposed, effective delivery and distribution of thrombolytic drug into the clot is
needed to accelerate ﬁbrinolysis.484 Second, the presence of an ipsilateral MCA occlusion along with the ICA
occlusion, is generally caused by artery-to-artery embolism, with a platelet-rich, lytic-resistant clot proceeding
from the carotid plaque. These clots have a poorer propensity for lysis with tPA compared with ﬁbrin-rich
clots.485 Third, because of the high clot burden and
poor collateral circulation, functional ICA occlusions
show poor response to IV thrombolysis.486
With advances in stent retrievers, recanalization rates in
patients with ICA occlusion are increasing. Optimal
endovascular strategies for patients with acute carotid
occlusion are being elucidated. Despite the complex
classiﬁcation of occlusion sites, different underlying etiologies, huge clot burden and high risk of ICH, endovascular treatment of acute ICA occlusion seems to be
effective and safe.487 However, the time to treatment
should be as short as possible.
A high revascularization rate has been reported with
angioplasty and stenting (endovascular treatment) for
acute carotid occlusions. Sugg et al488 reported a 64%
immediate recanalization risk with endovascular treatment in patients with ICA occlusion treated within
3 hours of onset of stroke. The most challenging step involves catheterization of the lumen of the total occluded
artery. In a large case series involving stenting of the proximal ICA followed by thrombectomy, Cohen et al reported successful reperfusion in 79% of patients. These
data supported use of this approach because most acute
occlusion lesions are due to atherosclerotic lesions with
fresh thrombus.489
Summary and recommendations.
1. Intravenous thrombolysis should be administered as
ﬁrst-line treatment in symptomatic patients with
early acute ICA occlusion.
2. Endovascular treatment might be considered and
has acceptable clinical outcomes.
Carotid artery dissection
Carotid dissection may occur spontaneously, or it may
result from traumatic or iatrogenic injury. Diagnosis is
made with contrast-enhanced CTA, MRA or catheterbased angiography. The choice of appropriate therapy
remains controversial because most carotid dissections
heal on their own and there are no randomized trials

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

73S

Volume 75, Number 1S

to compare treatment options.490 Antithrombotic treatment with either an anticoagulant (heparin, low molecular weight heparin or warfarin) or a platelet inhibitor
(aspirin, clopidogrel or the combination of extendedrelease dipyridamole plus aspirin) for at least 3 to
6 months is reasonable in patients with carotid artery
dissection associated with ischemic stroke or TIA. The
number of adverse events does not signiﬁcantly differ
based on the medical therapy.491 The safety and effectiveness of therapy with alpha-adrenergic antagonist,
angiotensin inhibitor, or nondihydropyridine calcium
channel antagonist to lower blood pressure to normal
and reduce arterial wall stress are not well-established.
By contrast, intervention is reserved for symptomatic
patients with recurrent neurologic symptoms whose
symptoms have not responded to antithrombotic therapy after acute carotid dissection. Although open surgical repair with saphenous vein interposition graft is the
therapy of choice, it is associated with increased risk of
perioperative cerebrovascular events and CNI.492
With recent advances in endovascular technology,
percutaneous therapy with stent placement has become
increasingly common. The indications for stent placement are poorly deﬁned. Failure or contraindications to
medical therapy is the most common reason for endovascular management. In a retrospective review of 53 patients who underwent endovascular treatment for
symptomatic traumatic carotid dissection, risk of postoperative symptoms, luminal narrowing, and asymptomatic stent occlusion were 6.4%, 2.1% and 2.0%,
respectively.493 Although there are no studies comparing
open vs endovascular repair, endovascular treatment of
patients who failed medical management seems to be
justiﬁed.

TREATMENT OF PROXIMAL VERTEBRAL ARTERY
DISEASE
Proximal vertebral artery disease (V1 segment) is a less
common cause of cerebrovascular pathology than internal carotid stenosis, but atherosclerosis of the vertebral
artery may occur in up to 30% of patients presenting
with TIA or stroke.494-498 In addition, these patients may
have concomitant ICA disease. Less common etiologies
include dissection, trauma, ﬁbromuscular dysplasia,
Takayasu’s disease, spinous bony compression, aneurysms, and arteritis. Patients with vertebral-basilar TIAs
with a diseased vertebral artery have a 5-year stroke risk
of 22% to 35%.495,499-501 In addition, patients with posterior circulation strokes have higher mortality (20%-30%)
than patients with anterior circulation strokes.502-504
The proximal vertebral artery origin (V1 segment) is the
most common site of atherosclerotic stenosis (20%40% of patients), but lesions are typically smooth with
low embolic risk.505
Despite the relatively high stroke risk, only 5%-8% of operations for cerebrovascular disease are performed for

proximal vertebral disease.506 Before treatment of symptomatic vertebral artery lesions, other overlapping causes
of symptoms, such as orthostatic hypotension, aggressive
use of antihypertensive medications, inner ear pathology,
and cardiac causes must be excluded. The most common open surgical treatment is vertebral artery to CCA
transposition, with a low morbidity and mortality akin
to CEA. However, these procedures are reserved for
symptomatic patients.506-508 Outcomes of combined
stroke and death are less than 1% for vertebral artery
operation alone, but 5.7% when combined with carotid
disease intervention.507 Endovascular treatment for proximal vertebral artery disease has been reported in multiple small case series, often with a high risk of restenosis
(40%-50%)498,509-512 Distal embolic protection is often
difﬁcult because of the small size of the vertebral artery,494,513 and both angioplasty alone and in combination with stent has been described.494,509-512 The
randomized series (CAVATAS)510 and other small
descriptive series494,509,511 failed to demonstrate superior
outcome in the endovascular management of vertebral
artery disease, with a higher incidence of carotid territory
stroke, MI, and restenosis in patients having stent
placement.
Summary and recommendations. In patients presenting with symptomatic vertebral disease causing vertebrobasilar TIA or stroke, open surgical treatment with
vertebral artery to common carotid transposition is recommended in low-risk surgical candidates.

TREATMENT OF BRACHIOCEPHALIC DISEASE
AND PROXIMAL CCA OCCLUSIVE DISEASE
Signiﬁcant stenosis or occlusion of the great vessel origins is rare with an incidence of 0.5% to 6.4%. Disease occurs in the innominate or left subclavian artery more
frequently than the left carotid.514 Many of these arch lesions are asymptomatic, although tandem lesions in the
carotid bifurcation can occur in up to 17% of patients
with arch origin lesions.514,515 Although the indications
for intervention in patients with great vessel branch disease are similar to those for CEA, there is no evidence
supporting treatment in asymptomatic patients. The
treatment of symptomatic patients with stroke/TIA or
arm ischemia is logical, but in patients without symptoms the natural history of the disease is unknown.
Intervention can be performed by open direct repair
with possible sternotomy (mini), cervical extra-anatomic
bypass or transposition, hybrid open/endovascular, or
endovascular intervention alone. Endarterectomy and
bypass procedures with sternotomy or trap-door incisions may be considered with equally excellent longterm patency, although small series suggest direct
reconstruction with endarterectomy may be superior to
bypass.516,517 In some cases, when all three arch vessels
are diseased, the ascending aorta must be used as

74S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

inﬂow, requiring sternotomy. In general, a transthoracic
approach provides signiﬁcantly better long-term patency
than the cervical approach.518 However, these reconstructions require invasive incisions and longer recovery.
When there is a patent arch vessel to act as inﬂow, cervical open reconstructions may be less invasive, but they
also carry a risk of nerve or thoracic duct injury. Prosthetic
conduit can be used with excellent long term patency if
direct transposition of vessels is not possible.519 If grafts
are tunneled from the contralateral side, a retroesophageal tunnel can be used to avoid a graft in the anterior
neck.520 Because of the decreased morbidity compared
with the transthoracic approach, cervical reconstruction
is
recommended
in
patients
with
multiple
comorbidities.520
Endovascular options include antegrade and retrograde angioplasty and stent with bare and covered
stents, as well as hybrid procedures of cervical endarterectomy with retrograde stenting.514 In the series from van
de Weijer et al,514 144 lesions in 114 patients were treated,
including 117 undergoing primary stenting for symptomatic arch lesions. The authors reported a technical success rate of 94% and no stroke or death at 30 days. At
a mean follow-up of 52 months, symptom-free survival
was 95% and 78% at 12 and 60 months, respectively.514
Embolic protection should be used if anatomically
feasible.
Tandem lesions include patients with signiﬁcant ICA
stenosis in combination with proximal ipsilateral common carotid or innominate stenosis of greater than
50%. Although open reconstructions may be technically
feasible, small case series suggest that a hybrid approach
with CEA and retrograde CCA/innominate stent may
have improved morbidity and mortality compared with
an open approach.521-523
Summary and recommendations.
1. Interventions (open or endovascular) to treat proximal
CCA or innominate artery critical lesions are not suggested in asymptomatic patients.
2. In symptomatic patients, the choice of open (cervical
vs transthoracic), hybrid, or endovascular treatment is
dependent on patient anatomy and comorbidities.
Embolic protection is suggested for endovascular
intervention if feasible.

THERAPY OF CONCURRENT CORONARY AND
CAROTID DISEASE
(See also Clinical Practice Guidelines document.)
Carotid stenosis of greater than 50% occurs in 9% of
coronary artery bypass (CABG) patients, and carotid stenosis of greater than 80% stenosis occurs in 7% of
CABG patients.524 Although overall perioperative stroke
prevalence with CABG is 1% to 2%, stroke risk increases
as high as 7% to 9% in patients with 50% to 100% carotid
stenosis,524,525 and 18% and 26% after CABG in patients

with symptomatic unilateral and bilateral carotid stenosis, respectively.526 If carotid occlusion is present, risk of
perioperative stroke increases to 7% to 12%.527-530 It is unknown whether carotid stenosis itself speciﬁcally increases stroke risk in patients undergoing CABG or
whether carotid stenosis is a marker of diffuse atherosclerotic disease. Even the presence of a bruit increases
the risk of stroke to 1.6% to 5.5%.524,531,532
If possible, patients with coronary disease amenable to
percutaneous coronary intervention should be treated in
that manner, followed by treatment of the carotid stenosis. Options for management of both carotid and coronary disease include staged CEA followed by CABG,
CABG followed by CEA, simultaneous CABG and CEA,
staged CAS followed by CABG, or even CAS with CABG
or coronary percutaneous intervention the same
day.533,534 A review of the current literature suggests
that the lowest stroke risk occurs when CEA is performed
ﬁrst, followed by staged CABG. Understandably, combined CEA and CABG has the highest mortality risk,
whereas CABG ﬁrst followed by CEA has the lowest mortality risk, but the highest stroke risk, as suggested by
older studies.535,536 However, these studies were not prospectively randomized because of the complex decisionmaking involved in caring for these patients. A
meta-analysis, however, by Naylor et al527 reported the
total stroke/MI/death risk with any combination CEA
and CABG ranges from 9% to 12%. In addition, Klarin
et al537 reviewed the Society of Thoracic Surgeons Adult
Cardiac database, assessing 22,355 patients with CABG
between 2011 and 2016. Results showed that concomitant CEA did not reduce stroke risk regardless of the patient having an off-pump or on-pump CABG, although a
directly comparison to a staged approach was not
possible.537 An additional meta-analysis of 21,710 synchronous CABG-CEA patients and 23,185 staged patients,
found that the simultaneous CABG-CEA group had
higher 30-day mortality and stroke, but a lower risk of
MI compared with the staged group.538 These large
meta-analyses suggest that combined CABG-CEA may
not be indicated in most patients (see Clinical Practice
Guidelines document).
Although one may consider intervention in patients
with asymptomatic disease in some cases, a logical
follow-up question is whether all CABG patients should
be preoperatively screened for carotid disease. The prevalence of asymptomatic carotid artery disease (>70%) is
5% to 10% in patients undergoing CABG, but it is less
clear whether identifying the stenosis before CABG will
affect patient outcomes.539,540 However, when assessing
the literature in aggregate, screening for carotid stenosis
results in improved mortality (see Clinical Practice Guidelines). Several society guidelines, including those from
the American College of Cardiology Foundation, recommend screening among asymptomatic patients with
planned CABG. In addition, patients with clinical factors

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

75S

Volume 75, Number 1S

that may increase the likelihood of identifying severe carotid stenosis including increased age, carotid bruit, history of prior stroke/TIA, and left main stem disease,
should undergo carotid imaging.525,541,542
CAS may be an option to reduce stroke risk before
CABG. Several studies demonstrate a trend toward
decreased stroke risk in patients treated with CAS before
CABG.543-545 A review of the Nationwide Inpatient Sample found a 62% higher perioperative stroke risk after
combined CEA and CABG (3.9%) compared with combined CAS and CABG (2.4%), with an OR of 1.62 (95% CI,
1.1-2.5).543 A more recent meta-analysis from Paraskevas
et al included 2,727 patients who had staged or sameday CAS-CABG with an overall 30-day combined stroke/
death risk of 7.9%. However, 80% had asymptomatic unilateral carotid artery stenosis.533 Shishehbor et al546
assessed three groups in mostly asymptomatic patients:
staged CEA-CABG, staged CAS-CABG, and combined
CEA-CABG. Staged CEA-CABG had the least favorable
risks of death, stroke and MI compared with the other
2 groups, which were similar. Overall, CAS-CABG was
favored for long-term outcomes after 1 year.546
Summary and recommendations. See Clinical Practice
Guidelines.

THERAPY OF CAROTID DISEASE AND OTHER
MAJOR NONCARDIAC SURGERY
Overall, less than 0.1% to 4.3% of patients undergoing
noncardiac surgery will have a clinically overt perioperative stroke.547-550 Stroke risks range from 0.08% to 0.7%
of patients undergoing general surgery, 0.2% to 0.9%
with orthopaedic surgery, 0.6% to 0.9% lung operations,
and 0.8% to 3.0% of patients undergoing peripheral
vascular procedures.551,552 However, perioperative stroke
in these circumstances have devastating effects with as
high as 32% 30-day mortality and 58% major disability
in the POISE trial.550 Multivariate analysis of 523,059 patients identiﬁed age, history of MI within 6 months, acute
renal failure, a history of stroke or TIA, dialysis, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and current
tobacco use to be independent predictors of stroke.549 A
high body mass index corresponded with a lower stroke
risk.549
Patients scheduled for noncardiac surgery should be
queried about stoke or TIA symptoms. If there is clinical
evidence of a symptomatic cerebrovascular event
within the last 6 months, the patient should have imaging of the carotid and brain and undergo carotid revascularization, thereby postponing the noncardiac
surgery.549,553 In patients with peripheral arterial disease, the rate of asymptomatic carotid stenosis of
greater than 70% is 14%.554,555 Therefore, clinical judgement may dictate the need for preoperative imaging in
patients with peripheral arterial disease underdoing
noncardiac surgery. Most important, carotid stenosis

may be just one sign that the patient has diffuse atherosclerosis, in particular, coronary disease. In a prospective
series of 390 patients undergoing elective carotid stenting, 22% had three-vessel disease, and 7% had left main
disease, emphasizing the importance of risk factor
reduction and optimal medical management with antiplatelet agents, statins, and blood pressure control.151,556
However, there are other predictors of postoperative
stroke, such as female gender or renal failure that are
nonmodiﬁable.557 If not absolutely contraindicated,
statin and antiplatelet therapy should continue in the
perioperative period of noncardiac surgery in patients
with asymptomatic moderate to severe carotid stenosis,
as long as bleeding risk is not excessive.554 Although
most literature assesses symptomatic stroke and TIA,
there is also an ongoing trial to identify covert stroke after noncardiac surgery by evaluation of MRI and cognitive assessments.558
Summary and recommendations.
1. Before noncardiac surgery, preoperative carotid and
cerebral imaging is suggested in patients with stroke
or TIA within preceding 6 months.
2. Patients with carotid artery disease undergoing
noncardiac surgery should have the same indications
for intervention as the general population.
3. If possible, statin and antiplatelet therapy should be
continued perioperatively in patients with 50% to
99% asymptomatic stenosis.
4. If a patient has asymptomatic carotid stenosis and
critical limb ischemia, the limb ischemia should be
addressed ﬁrst.

OPERATIVE VOLUME AND SPECIALTY AND
CAROTID INTERVENTION: CEA AND CAS
Carotid endarterectomy
Several studies concluded that higher surgeon volume
is associated with lower complication rates after
CEA,2,559-562 and others have noted high-volume centers
are associated with better outcomes.563-565 It has also
been reported that surgeon specialty may play a role in
perioperative outcomes after CEA, with some studies
noting advantages of one surgical specialty over
another.559,566,567 Only a few studies have examined the
combined impact of the surgeon’s specialty and volume
as they relate to CEA outcomes.559,567 Healthcare reform
and related issues concerning comparative and costeffectiveness are driving the need to deﬁne outcomerelated interventions. This is especially true for asymptomatic CEA because some authorities question the
value of stroke prevention vs optimal medical therapy.
A meta-analysis of 25 studies (936,436 CEA) noted a signiﬁcant correlation between CEA in higher-volume centers and lower risk of 30-day perioperative death,
stroke, and stroke/death. The critical threshold was 79

76S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

cases per year per center.568 Similarly, a British study of
18,248 CEAs showed there was a signiﬁcant relationship
between volume and outcomes that favored higher volume centers. These were associated with a lower mortality risk and shorter length of stay.569 In this study, the
critical threshold was 35 CEA per center per year.
Enomoto et al570 reported on surgical specialty and
outcomes for CEA using data for 34,493 CEAs from
2005 to 2010 in the NSQIP database. After controlling
for patient/surgical characteristics, patients treated by
general surgeons did not have signiﬁcant differences in
length of stay or 30-day mortality than those treated by
vascular surgeons. However, general surgery patients
had nearly twice the risk of acquiring a surgical site infection (OR, 1.9; P ¼ .012) and greater than 1.5 times the risk
of stroke (OR, 1.6; P ¼ .008) than vascular surgery patients.
But general surgery patients had less than half the risk of
MI (OR, 0.34; P ¼ .031) compared with vascular surgery
patient. The authors concluded that surgical specialty
was associated with a wide range of postoperative clinical outcomes after CEA.570
Lieber et al571 reported on the impact of surgical specialty on outcomes following CEA. using the National
Surgical Quality Inpatient database that included
42,369 patients across all specialties. Patient demographics were similar between the specialty groups. Results showed that compared with vascular surgeons,
general surgery patients had signiﬁcantly a higher postoperative stroke risk (2.3% vs 1.5%; OR, 1.6; 95% CI, 1.172.21). However, surgical specialty was not a signiﬁcant
risk factor for 30-day postoperative mortality (0% for
cardiothoracic surgeons; 0.8% for vascular surgeons;
1.1% for general surgeons; and 1.8% for neurosurgeons;
P ¼ .995). Length of stay (P < .001), operative duration
(P < .001), and postoperative requirement for a ventilator
greater than 48 hours (P ¼ .004) were all greatest among
neurosurgeons. The authors concluded that although
there was a difference in postoperative stroke and other
secondary outcomes, no differences in mortality risk
were observed among specialties after CEA.571
AbuRahma et al572 reported on the effect of surgeon’s
specialty and volume on CEA perioperative outcomes
in a retrospective analysis of 953 CEA during a 2-year
period. Surgeons were classiﬁed into general surgeons,
cardiothoracic surgeons, and vascular surgeons, and their
volume was categorized into low volume (<10 CEAs),
medium volume (10 to <30 CEAs) and high volume
($30 CEAs). Perioperative stroke and death risk were
1.3%, 2.9%, and 4.1% for vascular surgeons, cardiothoracic
surgeons, and general surgeons, respectively (P ¼ .126). A
subgroup analysis showed that perioperative stroke risks
for asymptomatic patients were 0.7%, 3%, and 3.6% (P ¼
.099) and for symptomatic patients were 2.3%, 2.3%, and
5.3% (P ¼ .511) for vascular surgeons, cardiothoracic surgeons, and general surgeons, respectively. Perioperative
stroke risks were higher for nonvascular surgeons

(general surgeons and cardiothoracic surgeons combined) vs vascular surgeons in asymptomatic patients
(3.2% vs 0.7%; P ¼ .033). Additionally, perioperative
stroke/death was also signiﬁcantly lower for highvolume surgeons: 1.3% vs 4.1% and 4.3% for mediumand low-volume surgeons (P ¼ .019) (1.3% vs 4.15% for
high vs low/medium combined; P ¼ .005). A univariate
logistic analysis showed that the OR of having a perioperative stroke was 0.4 (95% CI, 0.16-1.07; P ¼ .069) for
vascular surgeons vs cardiothoracic surgeons and general surgeons, 0.3 for high-volume surgeons vs low-/medium-volume surgeons (95% CI, 0.1-0.7; P ¼ .008), and
0.2 (95% CI, 0.06-0.45; P ¼ .0004) when patching was
used. A multivariate analysis showed that the OR of having a perioperative stroke for low-volume surgeons (vs
high-volume) was 3.4 (95% CI, 0.96-11.8; P ¼ .0581). The authors concluded that high-volume surgeons had signiﬁcantly better perioperative stroke/death rate for CEA
than low-/medium-volume surgeons. The perioperative
stroke/death rate were also higher for nonvascular surgeons in asymptomatic patients.572
Recently, Meltzer et al573 analyzed the impact of provider characteristics on outcomes of CEA for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in New York State. In this study,
36,495 patients underwent CEA for asymptomatic disease performed by vascular surgeons (76%), general surgeons (16%), cardiac surgeons (6%), and neurosurgeons
(2%). Unadjusted outcomes improved with increasing
surgeon annual CEA volume. Patients of mid-career surgeons had lower stroke and mortality risk than those of
early or late-career surgeons. The odds of mortality
were increased when surgery was performed by the
lowest volume providers (quintile 1, 0-11 CEA/year; OR,
2.61; 95% CI, 1.3-5.3) or a nonspecialty trained general surgeon (OR, 1.64; 95% CI, 1.0-2.7). After adjustment for all
patient-level factors, provider volume remained an independent predictor of outcome, with signiﬁcantly
increased odds of mortality for volume quintile 1 (OR,
2.6; 95% CI, 1.3-5.2) and quintile 2 (12-22 CEA/year) (OR,
2.1; 95% CI, 1-4.3) surgeons. The authors concluded that
surgeon characteristics impact outcomes, with the best
results offered by high-volume, mid-career, specialty
trained surgeons.573
Kuehnl et al574 also reported on the association of
annual hospital volume with risk of in-hospital stroke or
death following CEA and carotid stenting by analyzing
the Statutory German Carotid Quality Assurance database. Hospitals were categorized into empirically determined quintiles according to annual case volume. The
resulting volume thresholds were 10, 25, 46, and 79 for
CEA and 2, 6, 12, and 26 for CAS procedures, and the analysis included 17,575 CAS procedures and 161,448 CEA. For
CEA patients, the crude risk of stroke or death decreased
from 4.2% (95% CI, 3.6%-4.9%) in low-volume hospitals
(ﬁrst quintile 1-10 CEA per year) to 2.1% (2.0%-2.2%) in
hospitals providing 80 or more CEA per year (ﬁfth

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

77S

Volume 75, Number 1S

quintile; P < .001 for trend). The overall risk of any death
or stroke in CAS patients was 3.7% (3.5%-4%), but no
trend was observed for annual volume (P ¼ .304). Riskadjusted analysis conﬁrmed a signiﬁcant inverse relationship between hospital volume and risk of stroke or death
after CEA but not CAS.574
Using administrative claims databases, Hussain et al575
reported on the association between operator specialty
and outcome after carotid artery revascularization in a
population-based, observational cohort study of all patients who underwent CEA or CAS in Ontario, Canada,
between 2002 and 2015. In this report, 16,544 patients
were analyzed (14,301 CEA and 2243 CAS). Vascular surgeons performed a majority of CEA (56%) followed by
neurosurgeons (21%), general surgeons (15%), cardiac surgeons (8%), radiologists (82.5%), and neurosurgeons
(17.5%) performed CAS. In the CEA group, risk of stroke
or death was higher among patients treated by nonvascular surgeons (4%) compared with vascular surgeons
(2.9%; adjusted OR, 1.3; 95% CI, 1.1-1.6; P ¼ .008) but risk
of death was similar in the two groups. The 30-day risk
of stroke or death was higher in CEA patients treated
by neurosurgeons (4.1%; adjusted OR, 1.3; 95% CI, 1.001.6) and cardiac surgeons (4.4%; adjusted OR, 1.5; 95%
CI, 1.0-2.3) compared with vascular surgeons (2.9%). Patients who underwent CAS by radiologists and neurosurgeons experienced similar 30-day stroke or death risk
(8% vs 7.9%, respectively; adjusted OR, 1.1; 95% CI, 0.71.7; P ¼ .79).575
Carotid artery stenting
CAS volume. Several prospective multicenter studies
evaluated operator experience to determine if it predicts
outcomes after CAS, yielding mixed results.5,198,576-580
The Carotid ACCULINK/ACCUNET Post Approval Trial to
Uncover Rare Events (CAPTURE 2) Study which included
5297 patients and CHOICE (Evaluating Outcomes
Through the Collection of Clinical Evidence) Study of
5841 patients both showed that physician experience
impacted CAS outcomes.577,580 However, neither the
CABANA (Carotid Stenting Boston Scientiﬁc Surveillance
Program) Study of 1025 patients nor the CAPTURE Study
of 3500 patients found that operator experience affected
outcomes.198,578 The CHOICE Study found that increased
time interval between the ﬁrst CAS and subsequent CAS
procedures was the only independent predictor of 30day perioperative stroke, death, and MI after CAS.580
The CAPTURE 2 Study showed an inverse relationship
between operator volume and adverse events.577 Other
studies used regional and national database to evaluate
if annual CAS volume impacts outcome and demonstrated decreased complication risk when CAS was performed by high-volume surgeons.205,581,582 However, a
study of 4001 CAS procedures by Steppacher et al583 did
not show a difference in in-patient stroke/death risk

based on operator volume. However physician categories
were deﬁned as low (<10 cases/year), medium (9-23
cases/year) and high (>23 cases/year), although other
studies deﬁned this factor differently.
Calvert et al576 reported the results of pooled analysis
from the Carotid Stenting Trialists Collaboration. This
included the EVA-3S trial, the SPACE trial, and the ICSS.
In this study of 1546 CAS patients, neither lifetime stenting experience excluding the carotid nor lifetime CAS
experience impacted 30-day risk of death or stroke. However, annual in-trial CAS operator volume signiﬁcantly
impacted outcomes such that low-volume providers
(mean of #3.2 CAS/year) had a 30-day stroke/death risk
of 10%, intermediate-volume providers (3.2-5.6 CAS/
year) had a 30-day stroke/death risk of 8.4%, and with
high-volume providers (>5.6 CAS/year), had 30-day
stroke/death risk of 5.1%.
In a systematic review of outcomes from a registry and
four large case series, it was noted that in active CAS centers it took almost 2 years of experience before 30-day
stroke/death risk fell below 5%.584 A large high-risk for
CEA registry, showed that a lifetime experience of 72
CAS procedures was needed to achieve 30-day stroke/
death risk of less than 3% in asymptomatic patients
less than 80 years of age.577 In an analysis of Medicare
beneﬁciaries, Nallamothu et al205 showed that 30-day
mortality was signiﬁcantly higher when practitioners performed fewer than six CAS procedures per year,
compared with more than 24 (OR, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.4-2.7;
P < .001). Setacci et al585 reported data from a large
single-center series involving 2124 CAS procedures and
showed that a lifetime experience of more than 100
CAS procedures was associated with signiﬁcantly fewer
perioperative strokes (OR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.7-0.95), whereas
a lifetime experience of fewer than 50 CAS procedures
was a signiﬁcant predictor of increased risk of perioperative stroke (P < .001).
As noted elsewhere in this article, Calvet et al576
concluded that CAS practitioners should be performing
at least six CAS procedures each year. The Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions and the Society for Vascular Medicine both advise that in the setting
of low CAS volumes, 25 lifetime CAS procedures is
reasonable to achieve competence, along with annual
10 to 15 CAS procedures to maintain competency.586
These numbers assume that 3% asymptomatic and 6%
for symptomatic thresholds are maintained.

CAS provider specialty
The CREST study noted no differences in outcome for
CAS based on operator specialty.5 The CAPTURE 2 study
noted that patients of interventional cardiologists
tended to have a lower 30-day stroke/death risk than
those of other specialties, but the difference was not statistically signiﬁcant.577 The CHOICE study, which

78S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

separated specialties into surgery, radiology/neurology,
and cardiology,580 demonstrated that cardiologists had
reduced EPD dwell times (the time during which the cerebral protection devices were deployed in place),
compared with surgery and radiology/neurology. However, the 30-day stroke/death/MI risk did not differ among
the three specialties. Similarly, the CAPTURE study found
no difference in 30-day stroke/death/MI based on specialty.577 Vogel et al587 evaluated the State Inpatient
Database for New Jersey and found that in 625 CAS patients, stroke risk was not signiﬁcantly different between
specialties. Interestingly, vascular surgeons did have a
lower mean hospital cost with radiology and cardiology.
Similarly, Steppacher et al583 used the State In-Patent
Databases from New York and Florida to evaluate 4001
CAS procedures, demonstrating no difference in inpatient stroke or death risk between interventional cardiology, interventional radiology, and vascular surgery.
Additionally, Sgroi et al588 evaluated 20,663 CAS patients
from the National Impatient Sample database, where
operators were classiﬁed into surgeons and interventionalists, and demonstrated that the 30-day stroke/death/MI
risks were not signiﬁcantly different between the two
groups.588 However, the study showed that the interventionalists did have increased hospital charges and length
of stay compared with the surgeons.
Recently, AbuRahma et al589 reported on the clinical
outcome of CAS according to provider specialty and volume. Four hundred fourteen CAS procedures (44% for
symptomatic indications) were analyzed. Clinical characteristics and demographics were similar between specialties. Major adverse events rates (stroke/MI/death)
were not signiﬁcantly different between specialties:
7.1% for interventional radiologists, 6.7% for interventional
vascular medicine, 6.3% for vascular surgeons, and 3.1%
for interventional cardiologists (P ¼ .3121; 6.3% for vascular
surgeons and 3.8% for others combined; P ¼ .2469).
When physicians with less than 5 CAS/year were
excluded: the major adverse event rates were 6.7% for
interventional vascular medicine, 4.7% for vascular surgeons, and 3.1% for interventional cardiologists (P ¼
.5633). When physicians performing fewer than ﬁve CAS
per year were excluded, and the vascular surgeons alone
were compared with others, the MAE rates were 3.6% for
non-vascular surgeons vs 4.7% for vascular surgeons (P ¼
.5958). The major adverse event rate for high-volume providers was 4.0% vs 9.5% for low-volume providers, regardless of their specialty (P ¼ .1002). Logistic regression
analysis showed that for high-volume providers, the OR
of major adverse event rate was 0.4 (95% CI, 0.15-1.1; P ¼
.0674). The authors concluded that perioperative major
adverse event risks for CAS, regardless of specialties,
were similar across various providers, particularly for
vascular surgeons with similar volumes as nonvascular
surgeons. Low-volume providers had higher major
adverse event rates.

POSTCAROTID INTERVENTION SURVEILLANCE:
POST CEA AND POST STENTING
Surveillance after a carotid intervention is common
practice established on historical ipsilateral restenosis,
contralateral disease progression and associated stroke
risk. Traditional surveillance protocols for both CEA and
CAS have been very rigorous, including ultrasound examination follow-up at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months and annually
thereafter, with some variation in early postoperative surveillance.590-593
Early surveillance (eg, at 1-3 months), particularly when
intraoperative completion imaging has not been performed, helps to identify technical errors and establishes
a baseline for subsequent comparisons. Follow-up can
detect ipsilateral carotid restenosis and contralateral disease progression, thereby providing an opportunity for
timely intervention to reduce stroke risk. This notion,
however, is increasingly challenged because of the
decreasing and selective role for intervention in otherwise asymptomatic patients.462,590,594-596 A surveillance
protocol is meaningful when anticipated results are likely
to alter a medical or interventional treatment plan in a
cost-effective manner.
Duplex ultrasound examination is the standard technique to observe patients treated with CEA or CAS. The
advantages of duplex ultrasound examination for
follow-up of patients undergoing carotid revascularization are well recognized. It is noninvasive, free of complications, and readily available in vascular laboratories. CTA
and MR angiography are alternative methods for determining restenosis after carotid procedures. The attendant radiation, nephrotoxic contrast agents, and
expense incurred with these modalities means that
they are more frequently used to conﬁrm a suspected severe restenosis after CEA or CAS when a therapeutic
intervention is being considered.597
Surveillance for restenosis
As described in Section COMPLICATIONS OF CAROTID
INTERVENTION, carotid restenosis occurs in a bimodal
distribution. Restenosis is generally attributed to neointimal hyperplasia when occurring within the ﬁrst 2 years
after revascularization or to recurrence of underlying
atherosclerotic disease thereafter. As demonstrated in a
recent meta-analysis of randomized trials, the anticipated, clinically relevant incidence of restenosis 70% or
more is 5.8% after any CEA and 10% after CAS within 4
to 5 years of follow-up.462
Although an increased risk of stroke has been shown in
patients with at least moderate ($50%) stenosis, the
mechanism of the stroke is not clear and may be of cardiac origin or a lacunar stroke.595,598 Without high-quality
evidence, that patients who suffer a stroke or TIA in the
presence of carotid restenosis 50% to 99% should be
considered for CEA or CAS. For asymptomatic stenoses
however, intervention should not be considered before

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

79S

Volume 75, Number 1S

restenosis exceeds 70%, because the value is uncertain
and the associated risk is high (see Section
COMPLICATIONS OF CAROTID INTERVENTION).
A vast majority of the few patients who develop restenosis will remain asymptomatic. In the meta-analysis
cited above, 1.5% and 5.2% of CEA patients with 0% to
69% and 70% to 99% stenosis, respectively, developed
a late ipsilateral stroke. The corresponding stroke risks
for CAS were 2.2% and 0.8%, suggesting a lower
restenosis-mediated risk compared with CEA.462 Even
with the higher restenosis-mediated risk of CEA, the absolute risk reduction in late ipsilateral stroke is small. The
2% to 3% stroke risk of reintervention (CEA or CAS)460,599
needs to be considered in the cost of any surveillance
protocol, given that the annual risk of ipsilateral (nonprocedure-related) stroke is only about 1% to 2%.600
A cost-effectiveness analysis of post-CEA ultrasound examination surveillance estimated total hospital charges
of $1,408,320 with a reimbursement of $702,400 for 489
CEAs followed up at 24 hours, 1, 6, and 12 months, and
annually thereafter. This surveillance protocol detected
only four patients with a greater than 80% restenosis,
raising concerns about overuse of surveillance ultrasound
assessments. The authors challenged the need for surveillance as not cost-effective and suggested decision
making based on severity of the contralateral carotid.596
Surveillance for contralateral carotid disease
Contralateral carotid disease progression after CEA and
its clinical signiﬁcance have been controversial in terms
of the need and frequency of surveillance as well as the
need for prophylactic surgical management among
asymptomatic patients.590,593,601-604
Irrespective of baseline contralateral ICA stenosis, by
2 years, 5% to 15% of patients will progress by one duplex
deﬁned categorical range (from <50% to 50%-69% or
from 50%-69% to >70%).590,593,603,605,606 More important
than the progression itself is the associated risk of stroke
with higher grades of stenosis. Many studies have
conﬁrmed associations between disease progression
and stroke. However, the low overall risk, partly related to
the protective role of the index CEA and partly to optimization of medical treatment, challenge the need for carotid intervention in patients with asymptomatic carotid
stenosis with prior contralateral CEA.590,593,602,603,605,606
In the most recent retrospective study, late stroke risk in
patients with disease progression of the contralateral
ICA was almost double that of those without progression
(7.0% vs 3.3%). However, the difference did not reach signiﬁcance even when only progression to severe stenosis
was considered, an observation that points to other stroke
sources (eg, cardiac origin or a lacunar stroke). The authors
concluded that 95% of patients who undergo CEA will
take at least 2 years to progress to clinically relevant severe
($70%) ipsilateral or contralateral stenosis and that risk of
stroke, even for those who progress is very low.590

There are no robust data regarding intervals for followup imaging, and existing recommendations vary from
“no surveillance” to selective to rigorous follow-up.607 Targeted imaging surveillance programs based on a patient’s individual risk factors may be more cost effective.
Female gender, diabetes, renal insufﬁciency, continued
smoking, and impaired cerebrovascular reactivity (eg,
electrophysiological changes during clamping or neurologic symptoms during balloon inﬂation) have been
associated with disease progression and/or symptomatic
conversion.453,590,595,608,609
If cost effectiveness is considered in developing policies
to guide perioperative duplex scan surveillance, it is
reasonable to scan at 1 year and annually thereafter until
disease seems to be stable, deﬁned as no restenosis is
observed in two consecutive annual scans. Annual
follow-up also allows careful reassessment of risk factors
and medical treatment optimization. More frequent
follow-up can be considered for higher risk groups.
Summary and recommendations.
1. After CEA or CAS, we recommend surveillance with
duplex
ultrasound
examination
at
baseline
(#3 months) and annually thereafter until stable (ie,
until no restenosis observed in two consecutive
annual scans). Subsequent interval or regular surveillance (eg, every 2 years) can be selectively maintained
based on the stenosis of the contralateral ICA, the risk
proﬁle and life expectancy of the patient.
2. For patients combining multiple risk factors for restenosis after CEA or CAS (eg, female gender, diabetes,
renal insufﬁciency, continued smoking, and impaired
cerebrovascular reactivity) we recommend surveillance with duplex ultrasound examination every
6 months until a stable clinical pattern is established
and annually thereafter.

CAROTID INTERVENTION: CEA OR CAS AND
COGNITIVE FUNCTION
Carotid disease and cognitive function. As medical advances increase the average lifespan of the world population, the prevalence of dementia will increase and
place additional economic burdens on caregivers and
the healthcare system as a whole.610,611 Many factors inﬂuence dementia risk.612 Current literature suggests an
association between carotid occlusive disease and
increased risk for cognitive deterioration.613-615 Both
chronic hypoperfusion and embolization are implicated
in cognitive deterioration.616
The association between stroke and cognitive dysfunction has been clearly documented, Cognitive impairment following stroke ranges from 20% to 40%.617,618
The relationship between asymptomatic carotid stenosis
and cognitive function is still controversial. Multiple large
population-based cross-sectional and cohort studies
including the Tromsø Study, Rotterdam Study, Framingham Study, and Cardiovascular Health Study show that

80S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

subjects with asymptomatic carotid stenosis preform
signiﬁcantly worse on cognitive measures than control
subjects without carotid stenosis.614-616,619 These
population-based studies show an overall trend of
decreased cerebral blood ﬂow and increased silent infarcts on the hemisphere of the brain ipsilateral to the
carotid artery with various degree of asymptomatic stenosis. More speciﬁcally, decreased cerebral blood ﬂow
and decreased brain volume have been associated with
deterioration in various cognitive domains.620-622 In addition, studies have shown that 10% to 20% of asymptomatic patients with severe carotid stenosis have embolic
signals and these signals are higher for symptomatic patients.623,624 A linear relationship between the process of
mechanically unstable areas of carotid plaques and
cognitive decline suggests a contributory role of microembolization in silent strokes.613 Several studies showed
that embolic signals are associated with faster cognitive
deterioration and dementia in elderly despite an
absence of neurologic symptoms.625-627 Although patients with evidence of carotid stenosis have impaired
cognitive function compared with healthy controls independent of common vascular risk factors,615,628 vascular
disease shares common risk factors with cognitive
decline. These common factors include hypertension,
diabetes, and smoking, making it difﬁcult to differentiate
between causation and correlation.
The effects of revascularization procedures on cognition. Both CEA and stenting, particularly CEA, decrease
stroke risk,5,203 but the effect of carotid intervention on
cognitive function has been long debated.629
Many studies show an improvement in cognitive function after carotid revascularization procedures. Presumably, improved cerebral perfusion and removal of
embolic source have a positive impact on brain health.
Qu et al630 showed that CEA for severe carotid stenosis
following a minor stroke improved neurocognitive,
ophthalmic, and acoustic functions compared with
those did not receive treatment. Several prospective
case-control studies showed that successful revascularization improves long-term cognitive performance
measured by cognitive batteries compared with those
who did not receive treatment,631,632 and by P300 auditory evoked potentials.633 Auditory evoked potentials
present changes of brain electrical activity caused by
auditory stimulus and the P300 wave is a measurable
direct reaction of the brain to a certain sensory, cognitive,
or mechanical stimulus.634,635
Fierstra et al636 also showed increased cerebral blood
ﬂow and cortical thickness measured by MRI for those
who received successful revascularization for severe
occlusive cerebrovascular disease in whom affected
brain areas exhibited “steal physiology.” However, owing
to rich intracranial collaterals, unilateral severe carotid
stenosis may not correspond with severe cortical

ischemia.637 Therefore, the beneﬁt of improved perfusion
cannot be generalized. Although the aforementioned
prospective longitudinal studies followed relatively
vigorous study protocols, the cognitive beneﬁt of carotid
intervention has not been deﬁnitely established and
thus, cannot be recommended owing to relatively small
sample sizes.
In addition, procedure-related subclinical microembolization is common and carotid stenting is associated with
a higher incidence of microembolization.382,638-641 The
cognitive impact of microembolization may be signiﬁcant, but the effects are difﬁcult to decipher.642-645
Although many studies show procedure-related microembolization is associated with deterioration in cognitive
domains after carotid revascularization procedures;
others do not.639,642-645 Owing to differing sizes of
embolic particles, locations of these micro-embolic lesions, it is challenging to select the appropriate cognitive
batteries to test the true cognitive impacts of embolic lesions.646 Studies have shown improved cognitive function despite an evidence of microembolization and
that size of emboli play a signiﬁcant role in neuronal
death and long-term cognitive outcomes.646,647
It is important to recognize that the conﬂuence of factors contributing to poorer vascular health may also
affect cognition, and many other factors may also
contribute to which patients experience procedurerelated cognitive changes. Baseline brain connectivity648
and inﬂammatory status649 have been shown to
contribute to cognitive changes following carotid interventions. Physical activity650,651 also contributes to cognitive health.

COST ANALYSIS OF CEA AND CAS
Although health insurance coverage has been
extended to millions of previously uninsured individuals
in the United States, out of pocket expenses have risen
more rapidly than at any time in our history. From 2004
through 2014, for example, deductibles increased by
256% and coinsurance has increased by 106%.652 As a
result, many healthcare facilities are asking patients to
pay out-of-pocket expenses up front.653 In fact, there is
evidence that many patients are delaying or foregoing
medical/surgical treatment because of out-of-pocket
costs.654 Massachusetts became the ﬁrst state in the
United States to require hospitals to post healthcare prices.655 Of particular relevance to vascular surgeons, the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services proposed
that hospitals post prices online.656 It seems undeniable
that patients will be increasingly focused on the cost of
proposed procedures as well as the potential clinical
beneﬁts and risks. As a result, several organizations
have determined that it is now appropriate for clinical
practice guidelines to factor in cost in determining best
practices.657,658 The respective costs of CEA vs CAS have
been studied in several institutional series, population

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

81S

Volume 75, Number 1S

database studies, meta-analyses, randomized clinical trials, and through models of cost efﬁcacy.
In an early institutional series, 45 patients with symptomatic carotid stenoses who were considered high risk (NASCET-ineligible) for CEA underwent CAS between 1996 and
2002, and their costs were compared with a control series
of 391 patients with comparable risk factors who underwent CEA. Median total costs were $10,628 vs $10,148
(P ¼ .495) for CAS and CEA patients, respectively. However,
these results are confounded by a length of stay of 4.1 days
for CEA, which is not the standard of care in current domestic practice, compared with a length of stay of
1.6 days for CAS. When data were adjusted for length of
stay, CEA was less costly than CAS.659 In another early institutional series of 46 patients undergoing CAS and 48 patients undergoing CEA, CAS was associated with higher
total procedural costs ($17,402 vs $12,112; P ¼ .029) and
direct costs ($10,522 vs $7227; P ¼ .017). Of note, the hospital length of stay was 1.2 days for CAS and 2.1 days for CEA.
The major driver of the difference was supply costs for CAS
and CEA ($15,407 vs $1953; P ¼ .001), respectively.660 In a
similar institutional study from Korea (in which costs are
expressed in thousands of Korean won, TW) that included
28 patients who underwent CEA and 19 patients who underwent CAS, procedure and resource costs were higher
in CAS patients (5122 6 674 TW vs 2622 6 332 TW; P <
.001), although total hospital costs were similar owing to
higher postprocedure costs among CEA cases. This reﬂected the excessive length of stay for both procedures,
but especially CEA patients, compared with contemporary American standards (9.4 6 3.0 for CEA vs 4.8 6
3.2 days for CAS).661 In another single institution study of
31 patients undergoing CAS and 31 patients undergoing
CEA, total direct costs for CAS and CEA were $8219 6
$2958 and $3765 6 $2170 (P < .001), respectively.662 The
largest single institution study reported to date included
174 patients who underwent CEA and 132 patients who
underwent CAS. Data showed that mean hospital costs
were $9426 6 5775 for CAS and $6734 6 3935 for CEA
(P < .0001). As in other reports, the major driver of this differential was supply costs which were $5634 for CAS vs
$1967 for CEA (P < .0001). Hospital length of stay was
2.1 days for both groups.663
Population database analyses provide generally comparable results. In the most recent analysis from the Premier
Perspective Database that used propensity score matching, total hospital costs among asymptomatic patients
were 40% higher for CAS compared with CEA ($11,814 vs
$8378; P < .001); and 37% higher among symptomatic patients $19,426 vs $14,190; P < .001).664 These ﬁndings parallel an earlier study from the National Inpatient Sample of
404,256 patients who underwent either CEA or CAS from
2005 through 2007. Median charges were signiﬁcantly
higher for patients who underwent CAS (P < .0001).1
Conversely, a recent meta-analysis of 17 studies found
that procedure costs were 51% higher for CAS compared

with CEA, largely owing to the costs of devices and supplies. However, costs of the index admission in total were
comparable owing to higher postprocedure CEA costs.665
The relative costs of CAS and CEA will clearly impact
hospital proﬁtability. An analysis of the National Inpatient
Sample from 2001 through 2008 identiﬁed 181,200 CEA
and 12,485 CAS procedures. Median costs for uncomplicated CEA and CAS cases were $1466 and $3272 higher
than the average Medicare reimbursement, respectively.
Median costs for patients with intermediate levels of comorbid conditions for CEA and CAS cases were $2847
and $4926 higher than Medicare reimbursements,
respectively. For patients with the highest levels of comorbid conditions, the median costs for CEA and CAS
were $23,399 and $21,750 higher than Medicare reimbursements, respectively.666 These ﬁndings were supported by a single institution study of 169 patients
undergoing CEA and 132 patients undergoing CAS. Hospital reimbursement was 16% higher for CAS compared
with CEA ($12,000 6 $7372 vs $10,160 6 6840; P ¼ .02).
However, hospital net revenue was 29% higher ($3487
vs $2603) among patients undergoing CEA compared
with CAS owing to much higher CAS supply costs.667
Several investigators have reported long-term cost efﬁcacy analyses of CAS and CEA. In one report, outcomes of
447 patients undergoing CEA in a single institution were
compared with CAS outcomes in the literature. A Markov
decision model was constructed that included procedural costs and long-term cost of morbidities such as
stroke. Procedural costs of CEA and CAS were $7871
and $10,133, respectively. Assuming a procedural stroke
rate of 0.9% for CEA and 5.0% for CAS, and a 30-day mortality rate of 0% for CEA and 1.2% for CAS, CEA was found
to be associated with a lifetime saving of $7017 per patient and an increase in quality-adjusted life years saved
of 0.16.668 In another report, a cost utility analysis using a
Markov model was carried out using a Korean database
which included 346 CAS and 331 CEA procedures performed for symptomatic disease. CAS produced 6.49
quality-adjusted life-years compared with 6.71 qualityadjusted life-years for CEA, with signiﬁcantly higher costs
for CAS.669 Similarly, the Canadian health system database was used to carry out a cost utility analysis among
symptomatic patients using a Markov analytical model.
In the base case analysis, CAS was noted to be more
costly (incremental cost of $6107) and have a lower utility
(e0.12 quality-adjusted life-years). The drivers of these results were the costs of the procedures and the incidence
of periprocedural complications. CAS was only cost effective among high-surgical risk patients.670
In the CREST, estimated net costs were $18,335 and
$13,276 for CAS and CEA, respectively.671 However, in
another report, a Markov disease simulation model was
used to analyze CREST data to project 10-year costs
and quality-adjusted life-year expectancy for the two patient populations. CAS was associated with a mean

82S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

incremental cost of $524 per patient and a reduction in
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.008 years. It is unclear whether the practitioners who participated in
CREST through a rigorous selection process reﬂect
what can be expected in general practice of CAS and
CEA.672 The authors of the latter study also noted that
although CEA and CAS provided comparable overall results, more widespread performance of CAS may be
limited by the costs associated with CAS.672 Other investigators also conducted a cost utility analysis of the results of the ICSS over a 5-year horizon. This analysis
found that there were no signiﬁcant differences in
adjusted costs between the two procedures or in
adjusted outcomes. However, the authors of this report
noted that the study was limited by failure to capture
the costs of managing strokes in the study, and the fact
that the costs of supplies may not apply to other
countries.673
Although the clinical results of CAS continue to
improve, it seems clear from objective evidence accumulated to date that more broad-based applicability may
be limited by economic considerations. This should be
considered by clinicians when electing how to treat patients with carotid artery disease, and it may also inﬂuence patient decision-making. It seems clear that a
reduction in the costs associated with carotid stents
and associated other necessary endovascular tools may
be necessary,674 and/or reimbursement by payors will
need to match associated costs.

REFERENCES
1. Eslami MH, McPhee JT, Simons JP, Schanzer A, Messina LM. National trends in utilization and postprocedure outcomes for carotid
artery revascularization 2005 to 2007. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:307-15.
2. Cowan JA Jr, Dimick JB, Thompson BG, Stanley JC, Upchurch GR Jr.
Surgeon volume as an indicator of outcomes after carotid endarterectomy: an effect independent of specialty practice and hospital
volume. J Am Coll Surg 2002;195:814-21.
3. Ricotta JJ, Aburahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P,
Lal BK. Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines for
management of extracranial carotid disease. J Vasc Surg
2011;54:e1-31.
4. Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, Bacharach JM, Barr JD,
Bush RL, et al. 2011 ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/
CNS/SAIP/SCAI/SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on the management of patients with extracranial carotid and vertebral artery
disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines, and the American Stroke Association, American
Association of Neuroscience Nurses, American Association of
Neurological Surgeons, American College of Radiology, American Society of Neuroradiology, Congress of Neurological Surgeons, Society of Atherosclerosis Imaging and Prevention,
Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of NeuroInterventional
Surgery, Society for Vascular Medicine, and Society for Vascular
Surgery. J Am Coll Cardiol 2011;57:e16-94.
5. Brott TG, Hobson RW 2nd, Howard G, Roubin GS, Clark WM,
Brooks W, et al. Stenting versus endarterectomy for treatment of
carotid-artery stenosis. N Engl J Med 2010;363:11-23.
6. Ederle J, Dobson J, Featherstone RL, Bonati LH, van der Worp HB, de
Borst GJ, et al. Carotid artery stenting compared with endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis (International

Carotid Stenting Study): an interim analysis of a randomised
controlled trial. Lancet 2010;375:985-97.
7. Mas JL, Chatellier G, Beyssen B, Branchereau A, Moulin T,
Becquemin JP, et al. Endarterectomy versus stenting in patients
with symptomatic severe carotid stenosis. N Engl J Med 2006;355:
1660-71.
8. Ringleb PA, Allenberg J, Bruckmann H, Eckstein HH, Fraedrich G,
Hartmann M, et al. 30 day results from the SPACE trial of stentprotected angioplasty versus carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients: a randomised non-inferiority trial. Lancet
2006;368:1239-47.
9. Brott TG, Calvet D, Howard G, Gregson J, Algra A, Becquemin JP,
et al. Long-term outcomes of stenting and endarterectomy for
symptomatic carotid stenosis: a preplanned pooled analysis of individual patient data. Lancet Neurol 2019;18:348-56.
10. Naylor AR, Ricco JB, de Borst GJ, Debus S, de Haro J, Halliday A, et al.
Editor’s Choice - Management of Atherosclerotic Carotid and
Vertebral Artery Disease: 2017 Clinical Practice Guidelines of the
European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS). Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2018;55:3-81.
11. Benjamin EJ, Virani SS, Callaway CW, Chamberlain AM, Chang AR,
Cheng S, et al. Heart disease and stroke statistics-2018 update: a
report from the American Heart Association. Circulation 2018;137:
e67-492.
12. Feigin VL, Roth GA, Naghavi M, Parmar P, Krishnamurthi R, Chugh S,
et al. Global burden of stroke and risk factors in 188 countries,
during 1990-2013: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of
Disease Study 2013. Lancet Neurol 2016;15:913-24.
13. Johnston SC, Fayad PB, Gorelick PB, Hanley DF, Shwayder P, van
Husen D, et al. Prevalence and knowledge of transient ischemic
attack among US adults. Neurology 2003;60:1429-34.
14. Acheson J, Hutchinson EC. Observations on the natural history of
transient cerebral ischaemia. Lancet 1964;2:871-4.
15. Easton JD, Saver JL, Albers GW, Alberts MJ, Chaturvedi S,
Feldmann E, et al. Deﬁnition and evaluation of transient ischemic
attack: a scientiﬁc statement for healthcare professionals from the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association Stroke
Council; Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia; Council
on Cardiovascular Radiology and Intervention; Council on Cardiovascular Nursing; and the Interdisciplinary Council on Peripheral
Vascular Disease. The American Academy of Neurology afﬁrms the
value of this statement as an educational tool for neurologists.
Stroke 2009;40:2276-93.
16. Sacco RL, Kasner SE, Broderick JP, Caplan LR, Connors JJ, Culebras A,
et al. An updated deﬁnition of stroke for the 21st century: a statement
for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/
American Stroke Association. Stroke 2013;44:264-89.
17. Coupland AP, Thapar A, Qureshi MI, Jenkins H, Davies AH. The
deﬁnition of stroke. J R Soc Med 2017;110:9-12.
18. Liapis CD, Bell PR, Mikhailidis D, Sivenius J, Nicolaides A, Fernandes
e Fernandes J, et al. ESVS guidelines. Invasive treatment for carotid
stenosis: indications, techniques. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2009;37(4 Suppl):1-19.
19. Aho K, Harmsen P, Hatano S, Marquardsen J, Smirnov VE,
Strasser T. Cerebrovascular disease in the community: results of
a WHO collaborative study. Bull World Health Organ 1980;58:
113-30.
20. Degan D, Ornello R, Tiseo C, De Santis F, Pistoia F, Carolei A, et al.
Epidemiology of transient ischemic attacks using time- or tissuebased deﬁnitions: a population-based study. Stroke 2017;48:530-6.
21. Kleindorfer DO, Khoury J, Moomaw CJ, Alwell K, Woo D, Flaherty ML,
et al. Stroke incidence is decreasing in whites but not in blacks: a
population-based estimate of temporal trends in stroke incidence
from the Greater Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky Stroke Study.
Stroke 2010;41:1326-31.
22. Marnane M, Duggan CA, Sheehan OC, Merwick A, Hannon N,
Curtin D, et al. Stroke subtype classiﬁcation to mechanism-speciﬁc
and undetermined categories by TOAST, A-S-C-O, and causative
classiﬁcation system: direct comparison in the North Dublin population stroke study. Stroke 2010;41:1579-86.
23. Abbott AL, Bladin CF, Levi CR, Chambers BR. What should we do
with asymptomatic carotid stenosis? Int J Stroke 2007;2:27-39.
24. Bulwa Z, Gupta A. Embolic stroke of undetermined source: The role
of the nonstenotic carotid plaque. J Neurol Sci 2017;382:49-52.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

83S

Volume 75, Number 1S
25. Rockman CB. Cerebrovascular diseases. In: Sidawy AN, editor.
Rutherford’s vascular surgery and endovascular therapy. 9th ed.
Philadelphia: Elsevier; 2018. p. 1121-39.
26. Barnett HJM, Taylor DW, Haynes RB, Sackett DL, Peerless SJ,
Gerguson GG, et al; North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators. Beneﬁcial effect of carotid endarterectomy in symptomatic patients with high-grade carotid stenosis.
N Engl J Med 1991;325:445-53.
27. Toraman S, Tuncer SA, Balgetir F. Is it possible to detect cerebral
dominance via EEG signals by using deep learning? Med Hypotheses 2019;131:109315.
28. Endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. Executive
Committee for the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study.
JAMA 1995;273:1421-8.
29. Guirguis-Blake J, Weber E, Coppolu E. Screening for asymptomatic
carotid artery stenosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis for the
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Publication No. 20-05268(EF-1).
Rockville (MD): U.S. Preventive Services Task Force; 2020.
30. Zhu CZ, Norris JW. Role of carotid stenosis in ischemic stroke. Stroke
1990;21:1131-4.
31. Sauve JS, Thorpe KE, Sackett DL, Taylor W, Barnett HJ, Haynes RB,
et al. Can bruits distinguish high-grade from moderate symptomatic carotid stenosis? The North American Symptomatic Carotid
Endarterectomy Trial. Ann Intern Med 1994;120:633-7.
32. Pickett CA, Jackson JL, Hemann BA, Atwood JE. Carotid bruits as a
prognostic indicator of cardiovascular death and myocardial
infarction: a meta-analysis. Lancet 2008;371:1587-94.
33. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial.
Methods, patient characteristics, and progress. Stroke 1991;22:711-20.
34. Finn C, Giambrone AE, Gialdini G, Delgado D, Baradaran H, Kamel H,
et al. The Association between carotid artery atherosclerosis and
silent brain infarction: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis 2017;26:1594-601.
35. Benavente O, Eliasziw M, Streiﬂer JY, Fox AJ, Barnett HJ, Meldrum H.
Prognosis after transient monocular blindness associated with
carotid-artery stenosis. N Engl J Med 2001;345:1084-90.
36. McCullough HK, Reinert CG, Hynan LS, Albiston CL, Inman MH,
Boyd PI, et al. Ocular ﬁndings as predictors of carotid artery occlusive disease: is carotid imaging justiﬁed? J Vasc Surg 2004;40:
279-86.
37. MRC European Carotid Surgery Trial: interim results for symptomatic patients with severe (70-99%) or with mild (0-29%) carotid
stenosis. European Carotid Surgery Trialists’ Collaborative Group.
Lancet 1991;337:1235-43.
38. Nicolaides AN, Kakkos SK, Grifﬁn M, Sabetai M, Dhanjil S,
Thomas DJ, et al. Effect of image normalization on carotid plaque
classiﬁcation and the risk of ipsilateral hemispheric ischemic events:
results from the asymptomatic carotid stenosis and risk of stroke
study. Vascular 2005;13:211-21.
39. Wardlaw JM, Chappell FM, Stevenson M, De Nigris E, Thomas S,
Gillard J, et al. Accurate, practical and cost-effective assessment of
carotid stenosis in the UK. Health Technol Assess 2006;10:iii-iv. ix-x,
1-182.
40. Naylor AR, Adair W. Cerebrovascular Disease: Diagnostic Evaluation.
In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, editors. Rutherford’s textbook of vascular
surgery and endovascular therapy. 9th ed. Philadelphia: Elsevier;
2018. p. 1149-65.
41. Loftus IM, McCarthy MJ, Pau H, Hartshorne T, Bell PR, London NJ,
et al. Carotid endarterectomy without angiography does not
compromise operative outcome. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1998;16:
489-93.
42. AbuRahma AF, Srivastava M, Stone PA, Mousa AY, Jain A, Dean LS,
et al. Critical appraisal of the Carotid Duplex Consensus criteria in
the diagnosis of carotid artery stenosis. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:53-9;
discussion: 59-0.
43. Arous EJ, Simons JP, Flahive JM, Beck AW, Stone DH, Hoel AW, et al.
National variation in preoperative imaging, carotid duplex ultrasound criteria, and threshold for surgery for asymptomatic carotid
artery stenosis. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:937-44.
44. Columbo JA, Zwolak RM, Arous EJ, Goodney PP, Lilly MP, Welch HG.
Variation in ultrasound diagnostic thresholds for carotid stenosis in
the United States. Circulation 2020;141:946-53.
45. AbuRahma AF, Srivastava M, Hass SM, Chong B, AbuRahma Z,
Dean LS, et al. Practice patterns of carotid endarterectomy as

performed by different surgical specialties at a single institution
and the effect on perioperative stroke and cost of preoperative
imaging. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:1232-7.
46. Grant EG, Benson CB, Moneta GL, Alexandrov AV, Baker JD, Bluth EI,
et al. Carotid artery stenosis: grayscale and Doppler ultrasound
diagnosis–Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound consensus conference. Ultrasound Q 2003;19:190-8.
47. Kim AH, Augustin G, Shevitz A, Kim H, Trivonovich MR, Powell AR,
et al. Carotid Consensus Panel duplex criteria can replace modiﬁed
University of Washington criteria without affecting accuracy. Vasc
Med 2018;23:126-33.
48. Altaf N, Daniels L, Morgan PS, Auer D, MacSweeney ST, Moody AR, et al.
Detection of intraplaque hemorrhage by magnetic resonance imaging
in symptomatic patients with mild to moderate carotid stenosis predicts recurrent neurological events. J Vasc Surg 2008;47:337-42.
49. Kuo PH, Kanal E, Abu-Alfa AK, Cowper SE. Gadolinium-based MR
contrast agents and nephrogenic systemic ﬁbrosis. Radiology
2007;242:647-9.
50. Saba L, Sanﬁlippo R, Pirisi R, Pascalis L, Montisci R, Mallarini G.
Multidetector-row CT angiography in the study of atherosclerotic
carotid arteries. Neuroradiology 2007;49:623-37.
51. Gagne PJ, Matchett J, MacFarland D, Hauer-Jensen M, Barone GW,
Eidt JF, et al. Can the NASCET technique for measuring carotid
stenosis be reliably applied outside the trial? J Vasc Surg 1996;24:
449-55; discussion: 455-6.
52. Abbott AL, Paraskevas KI, Kakkos SK, Golledge J, Eckstein HH, DiazSandoval LJ, et al. Systematic review of guidelines for the management of asymptomatic and symptomatic carotid stenosis.
Stroke 2015;46:3288-301.
53. Bartlett ES, Walters TD, Symons SP, Fox AJ. Diagnosing carotid
stenosis near-occlusion by using CT angiography. AJNR Am J
Neuroradiol 2006;27:632-7.
54. Chobanian AV, Bakris GL, Black HR, Cushman WC, Green LA,
Izzo JL Jr, et al. The Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee
on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood
Pressure: the JNC 7 report. JAMA 2003;289:2560-72.
55. Rodgers A, MacMahon S, Gamble G, Slattery J, Sandercock P,
Warlow C. Blood pressure and risk of stroke in patients with cerebrovascular disease. The United Kingdom Transient Ischaemic
Attack Collaborative Group. BMJ 1996;313:147.
56. Lawes CM, Bennett DA, Feigin VL, Rodgers A. Blood pressure and
stroke: an overview of published reviews. Stroke 2004;35:1024.
57. Law MR, Morris JK, Wald NJ. Use of blood pressure lowering drugs in
the prevention of cardiovascular disease: meta-analysis of 147
randomised trials in the context of expectations from prospective
epidemiological studies. BMJ 2009;338:b1665.
58. Rothwell PM, Howard SC, Spence JD. Relationship between blood
pressure and stroke risk in patients with symptomatic carotid
occlusive disease. Stroke 2003;34:2583-90.
59. Bond R, Narayan SK, Rothwell PM, Warlow CP. Clinical and radiographic risk factors for operative stroke and death in the European
carotid surgery trial. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;23:108-16.
60. Naylor AR, Sayers RD, McCarthy MJ, Bown MJ, Nasim A, Dennis MJ,
et al. Closing the loop: a 21-year audit of strategies for preventing
stroke and death following carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2013;46:161-70.
61. Abou-Chebl A, Reginelli J, Bajzer CT, Yadav JS. Intensive treatment
of hypertension decreases the risk of hyperperfusion and intracerebral hemorrhage following carotid artery stenting. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2007;69:690-6.
62. Obeid T, Arhuidese I, Gaidry A, Qazi U, Abularrage C, Goodney P,
et al. Beta-blocker use is associated with lower stroke and death
after carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg 2016;63:363-9.
63. Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Dennison Himmelfarb C, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/
APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults:
a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll
Cardiol 2018;71:e127-248.
64. Wilson PW, Hoeg JM, D’Agostino RB, Silbershatz H, Belanger AM,
Poehlmann H, et al. Cumulative effects of high cholesterol levels,
high blood pressure, and cigarette smoking on carotid stenosis.
N Engl J Med 1997;337:516-22.

84S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

65. Heiss G, Sharrett AR, Barnes R, Chambless LE, Szklo M, Alzola C.
Carotid atherosclerosis measured by B-mode ultrasound in populations: associations with cardiovascular risk factors in the ARIC
study. Am J Epidemiol 1991;134:250-6.
66. Howard G, Manolio TA, Burke GL, Wolfson SK, O’Leary DH. Does the
association of risk factors and atherosclerosis change with age? An
analysis of the combined ARIC and CHS cohorts. The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) and Cardiovascular Health Study
(CHS) investigators. Stroke 1997;28:1693-701.
67. Boutouyrie P, Bussy C, Hayoz D, Hengstler J, Dartois N, Laloux B,
et al. Local pulse pressure and regression of arterial wall hypertrophy during long-term antihypertensive treatment. Circulation
2000;101:2601-6.
68. Sutton-Tyrrell K, Wolfson SK Jr, Kuller LH. Blood pressure treatment
slows the progression of carotid stenosis in patients with isolated
systolic hypertension. Stroke 1994;25:44-50.
69. Wang JG, Staessen JA, Li Y, Van Bortel LM, Nawrot T, Fagard R, et al.
Carotid intima-media thickness and antihypertensive treatment: a
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Stroke 2006;37:
1933-40.
70. Wagenknecht LE, D’Agostino R Jr, Savage PJ, O’Leary DH, Saad MF,
Haffner SM. Duration of diabetes and carotid wall thickness. The
Insulin Resistance Atherosclerosis Study (IRAS). Stroke 1997;28:
999-1005.
71. Dobs AS, Nieto FJ, Szklo M, Barnes R, Sharrett AR, Ko WJ. Risk factors for
popliteal and carotid wall thicknesses in the Atherosclerosis Risk in
Communities (ARIC) Study. Am J Epidemiol 1999;150:1055-67.
72. Scholtes VP, Peeters W, van Lammeren GW, Howard DP, de Vries JP,
de Borst GJ, et al. Type 2 diabetes is not associated with an altered
plaque phenotype among patients undergoing carotid revascularization. A histological analysis of 1455 carotid plaques. Atherosclerosis 2014;235:418-23.
73. Smith NL, Barzilay JI, Shaffer D, Savage PJ, Heckbert SR, Kuller LH,
et al. Fasting and 2-hour postchallenge serum glucose measures
and risk of incident cardiovascular events in the elderly: the Cardiovascular Health Study. Arch Intern Med 2002;162:209-16.
74. Banerjee C, Moon YP, Paik MC, Rundek T, Mora-McLaughlin C,
Vieira JR, et al. Duration of diabetes and risk of ischemic stroke: the
Northern Manhattan Study. Stroke 2012;43:1212-7.
75. Zhang C, Zhou YH, Xu CL, Chi FL, Ju HN. Efﬁcacy of intensive control
of glucose in stroke prevention: a meta-analysis of data from 59,197
participants in 9 randomized controlled trials. PLoS One 2013;8:
e54465.
76. Laakso M. Beneﬁts of strict glucose and blood pressure control in
type 2 diabetes: lessons from the UK Prospective Diabetes Study.
Circulation 1999;99:461-2.
77. Gerstein HC, Miller ME, Byington RP, Goff DC Jr, Bigger JT, Buse JB,
et al. Effects of intensive glucose lowering in type 2 diabetes. N Engl
J Med 2008;358:2545-59.
78. Patel A, MacMahon S, Chalmers J, Neal B, Billot L, Woodward M,
et al. Intensive blood glucose control and vascular outcomes in
patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358:2560-72.
79. Iso H, Jacobs DR Jr, Wentworth D, Neaton JD, Cohen JD. Serum
cholesterol levels and six-year mortality from stroke in 350,977 men
screened for the multiple risk factor intervention trial. N Engl J Med
1989;320:904-10.
80. Bots ML, Elwood PC, Nikitin Y, Salonen JT, Freire de
Concalves A, Inzitari D, et al. Total and HDL cholesterol and risk
of stroke. EUROSTROKE: a collaborative study among research
centres
in
Europe.
J
Epidemiol
Community
Health
2002;56(Suppl 1):i19-24.
81. Horenstein RB, Smith DE, Mosca L. Cholesterol predicts stroke
mortality in the Women’s Pooling Project. Stroke 2002;33:1863-8.
82. Bucher HC, Grifﬁth LE, Guyatt GH. Effect of HMGcoA reductase inhibitors on stroke. A meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials.
Ann Intern Med 1998;128:89-95.
83. Baigent C, Keech A, Kearney PM, Blackwell L, Buck G, Pollicino C,
et al. Efﬁcacy and safety of cholesterol-lowering treatment: prospective meta-analysis of data from 90,056 participants in 14
randomised trials of statins. Lancet 2005;366:1267-78.
84. Amarenco P, Bogousslavsky J, Callahan A 3rd, Goldstein LB,
Hennerici M, Rudolph AE, et al. High-dose atorvastatin after
stroke or transient ischemic attack. N Engl J Med 2006;355:
549-59.

85. Amarenco P, Goldstein LB, Szarek M, Sillesen H, Rudolph AE,
Callahan A 3rd, et al. Effects of intense low-density lipoprotein
cholesterol reduction in patients with stroke or transient ischemic
attack: the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) trial. Stroke 2007;38:3198-204.
86. Collins R, Armitage J, Parish S, Sleight P, Peto R. Effects of
cholesterol-lowering with simvastatin on stroke and other major
vascular events in 20536 people with cerebrovascular disease or
other high-risk conditions. Lancet 2004;363:757-67.
87. Taylor F, Huffman MD, Macedo AF, Moore TH, Burke M, Davey
Smith G, et al. Statins for the primary prevention of cardiovascular
disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013:Cd004816.
88. Third Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP)
Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High
Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Adult Treatment Panel III) ﬁnal report.
Circulation 2002;106:3143-421.
89. van den Bogaard B, van den Born BJ, Fayyad R, Waters DD,
DeMicco DA, LaRosa JC, et al. On-treatment lipoprotein components and risk of cerebrovascular events in the Treating to New
Targets study. Eur J Clin Invest 2011;41:134-42.
90. McGirt MJ, Perler BA, Brooke BS, Woodworth GF, Coon A, Jain S,
et al. 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors reduce the risk of perioperative stroke and mortality
after carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:829-36; discussion: 836-7.
91. Kennedy J, Quan H, Buchan AM, Ghali WA, Feasby TE. Statins are
associated with better outcomes after carotid endarterectomy in
symptomatic patients. Stroke 2005;36:2072-6.
92. Heyer EJ, Mergeche JL, Bruce SS, Ward JT, Stern Y, Anastasian ZH,
et al. Statins reduce neurologic injury in asymptomatic carotid
endarterectomy patients. Stroke 2013;44:1150-2.
93. Ironside N, Brenner D, Heyer E, Chen CJ, Robison T,
Christophe B, et al. Systematic review and meta-analysis of
perioperative and long-term outcomes in patients receiving
statin therapy before carotid endarterectomy. Acta Neurochir
(Wien) 2018;160:1761-71.
94. Groschel K, Ernemann U, Schulz JB, Nagele T, Terborg C, Kastrup A.
Statin therapy at carotid angioplasty and stent placement: effect on
procedure-related stroke, myocardial infarction, and death. Radiology 2006;240:145-51.
95. Reiff T, Amiri H, Rohde S, Hacke W, Ringleb PA. Statins reduce periprocedural complications in carotid stenting. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2014;48:626-32.
96. Verzini F, De Rango P, Parlani G, Giordano G, Caso V, Cieri E, et al.
Effects of statins on early and late results of carotid stenting. J Vasc
Surg 2011;53:71-9; discussion: 79.
97. Crouse JR 3rd, Grobbee DE, O’Leary DH, Bots ML, Evans GW,
Palmer MK, et al. Measuring Effects on intima media Thickness: an
Evaluation Of Rosuvastatin in subclinical atherosclerosis–the rationale and methodology of the METEOR study. Cardiovasc Drugs
Ther 2004;18:231-8.
98. Taylor AJ, Kent SM, Flaherty PJ, Coyle LC, Markwood TT, Vernalis MN.
ARBITER: Arterial Biology for the Investigation of the Treatment
Effects of Reducing Cholesterol: a randomized trial comparing the
effects of atorvastatin and pravastatin on carotid intima medial
thickness. Circulation 2002;106:2055-60.
99. Smilde TJ, van Wissen S, Wollersheim H, Trip MD, Kastelein JJ,
Stalenhoef AF. Effect of aggressive versus conventional lipid
lowering on atherosclerosis progression in familial hypercholesterolaemia (ASAP): a prospective, randomised, double-blind
trial. Lancet 2001;357:577-81.
100. Mujaj B, Bos D, Selwaness M, Leening MJG, Kavousi M, Wentzel JJ,
et al. Statin use is associated with carotid plaque composition: The
Rotterdam Study. Int J Cardiol 2018;260:213-8.
101. Lloyd-Jones DM, Morris PB, Ballantyne CM, Birtcher KK, Daly DD Jr,
DePalma SM, et al. 2017 focused update of the 2016 ACC Expert
Consensus Decision Pathway on the Role of Non-Statin Therapies
for LDL-Cholesterol Lowering in the Management of Atherosclerotic
Cardiovascular Disease Risk: a report of the American College of
Cardiology Task Force on Expert Consensus Decision Pathways.
J Am Coll Cardiol 2017;70:1785-822.
102. Wolf PA, D’Agostino RB, Kannel WB, Bonita R, Belanger AJ. Cigarette smoking as a risk factor for stroke. The Framingham Study.
JAMA 1988;259:1025-9.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

85S

Volume 75, Number 1S
103. Shinton R, Beevers G. Meta-analysis of relation between cigarette
smoking and stroke. BMJ 1989;298:789-94.
104. Kawachi I, Colditz GA, Stampfer MJ, Willett WC, Manson JE,
Rosner B, et al. Smoking cessation and decreased risk of stroke in
women. JAMA 1993;269:232-6.
105. Wannamethee SG, Shaper AG, Whincup PH, Walker M. Smoking
cessation and the risk of stroke in middle-aged men. JAMA
1995;274:155-60.
106. Hogberg D, Kragsterman B, Bjorck M, Tjarnstrom J, Wanhainen A.
Carotid artery atherosclerosis among 65-year-old Swedish men - a
population-based screening study. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2014;48:5-10.
107. de Weerd M, Greving JP, Hedblad B, Lorenz MW, Mathiesen EB,
O’Leary DH, et al. Prediction of asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis
in the general population: identiﬁcation of high-risk groups. Stroke
2014;45:2366-71.
108. Ji R, Pan Y, Yan H, Zhang R, Liu G, Wang P, et al. Current
smoking is associated with extracranial carotid atherosclerotic
stenosis but not with intracranial large artery disease. BMC
Neurol 2017;17:120.
109. Herder M, Johnsen SH, Arntzen KA, Mathiesen EB. Risk factors for
progression of carotid intima-media thickness and total plaque
area: a 13-year follow-up study: the Tromso Study. Stroke 2012;43:
1818-23.
110. Steliga MA. Smoking cessation in clinical practice: how to get patients to stop. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2018;30:87-91.
111. Cahill K, Stevens S, Perera R, Lancaster T. Pharmacological interventions for smoking cessation: an overview and network metaanalysis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013:Cd009329.
112. Bibbins-Domingo K. Aspirin use for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease and colorectal cancer: U.S. Preventive Services
Task Force Recommendation Statement. Ann Intern Med 2016;164:
836-45.
113. Cote R, Battista RN, Abrahamowicz M, Langlois Y, Bourque F,
Mackey A. Lack of effect of aspirin in asymptomatic patients with
carotid bruits and substantial carotid narrowing. The Asymptomatic Cervical Bruit Study Group. Ann Intern Med 1995;123:649-55.
114. King A, Shipley M, Markus H. The effect of medical treatments on
stroke risk in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Stroke 2013;44:542-6.
115. Park JM, Kang K, Cho YJ, Hong KS, Lee KB, Park TH, et al.
Comparative effectiveness of prestroke aspirin on stroke severity
and outcome. Ann Neurol 2016;79:560-8.
116. Sacco RL, Adams R, Albers G, Alberts MJ, Benavente O, Furie K, et al.
Guidelines for prevention of stroke in patients with ischemic stroke
or transient ischemic attack: a statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke
Association Council on Stroke: co-sponsored by the Council on
Cardiovascular Radiology and Intervention: the American Academy
of Neurology afﬁrms the value of this guideline. Stroke 2006;37:
577-617.
117. Collaborative meta-analysis of randomised trials of antiplatelet
therapy for prevention of death, myocardial infarction, and stroke in
high risk patients. BMJ 2002;324:71-86.
118. Albers GW, Amarenco P, Easton JD, Sacco RL, Teal P. Antithrombotic and thrombolytic therapy for ischemic stroke: American
College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice
Guidelines (8th Edition). Chest 2008;133(6 Suppl):630s-69s.
119. Wolf PA, Clagett GP, Easton JD, Goldstein LB, Gorelick PB, KellyHayes M, et al. Preventing ischemic stroke in patients with prior
stroke and transient ischemic attack : a statement for healthcare
professionals from the Stroke Council of the American Heart Association. Stroke 1999;30:1991-4.
120. Johnston SC, Nguyen-Huynh MN, Schwarz ME, Fuller K, Williams CE,
Josephson SA, et al. National Stroke Association guidelines for the
management of transient ischemic attacks. Ann Neurol 2006;60:
301-13.
121. van Gijn J, Algra A, Kappelle J, Koudstaal PJ, van Latum A.
A comparison of two doses of aspirin (30 mg vs. 283 mg a day) in
patients after a transient ischemic attack or minor ischemic stroke.
N Engl J Med 1991;325:1261-6.
122. Goli RR, Contractor MM, Nathan A, Tuteja S, Kobayashi T, Giri J.
Antiplatelet therapy for secondary prevention of vascular disease
complications. Curr Atheroscler Rep 2017;19:56.

123. Johnson ES, Lanes SF, Wentworth CE 3rd, Satterﬁeld MH, Abebe BL,
Dicker LW. A metaregression analysis of the dose-response effect of
aspirin on stroke. Arch Intern Med 1999;159:1248-53.
124. Rothwell PM, Algra A, Chen Z, Diener HC, Norrving B, Mehta Z. Effects of aspirin on risk and severity of early recurrent stroke after
transient ischaemic attack and ischaemic stroke: time-course
analysis of randomised trials. Lancet 2016;388:365-75.
125. Alberts MJ, Bergman DL, Molner E, Jovanovic BD, Ushiwata I,
Teruya J. Antiplatelet effect of aspirin in patients with cerebrovascular disease. Stroke 2004;35:175-8.
126. Kasotakis G, Pipinos II, Lynch TG. Current evidence and clinical
implications of aspirin resistance. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:1500-10.
127. A randomized trial of anticoagulants versus aspirin after cerebral
ischemia of presumed arterial origin. The Stroke Prevention in
Reversible Ischemia Trial (SPIRIT) Study Group. Ann Neurol 1997;42:
857-65.
128. Mohr JP, Thompson JL, Lazar RM, Levin B, Sacco RL, Furie KL, et al.
A comparison of warfarin and aspirin for the prevention of recurrent
ischemic stroke. N Engl J Med 2001;345:1444-51.
129. Halkes PH, van Gijn J, Kappelle LJ, Koudstaal PJ, Algra A. Medium
intensity oral anticoagulants versus aspirin after cerebral ischaemia
of arterial origin (ESPRIT): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet
Neurol 2007;6:115-24.
130. De Schryver EL, Algra A, Kappelle LJ, van Gijn J, Koudstaal PJ.
Vitamin K antagonists versus antiplatelet therapy after transient
ischaemic attack or minor ischaemic stroke of presumed arterial
origin. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012:Cd001342.
131. A randomised, blinded, trial of clopidogrel versus aspirin in patients
at risk of ischaemic events (CAPRIE). CAPRIE Steering Committee.
Lancet 1996;348:1329-39.
132. Halkes PH, van Gijn J, Kappelle LJ, Koudstaal PJ, Algra A. Aspirin plus
dipyridamole versus aspirin alone after cerebral ischaemia of arterial
origin (ESPRIT): randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2006;367:1665-73.
133. Sacco RL, Diener HC, Yusuf S, Cotton D, Ounpuu S, Lawton WA, et al.
Aspirin and extended-release dipyridamole versus clopidogrel for
recurrent stroke. N Engl J Med 2008;359:1238-51.
134. Zhang JJ, Liu X. Aspirin plus dipyridamole has the highest surface
under the cumulative ranking curves (SUCRA) values in terms of
mortality, intracranial hemorrhage, and adverse event rate among 7
drug therapies in the treatment of cerebral infarction. Medicine
(Baltimore) 2018;97:e0123.
135. Wang Y, Wang Y, Zhao X, Liu L, Wang D, Wang C, et al. Clopidogrel
with aspirin in acute minor stroke or transient ischemic attack.
N Engl J Med 2013;369:11-9.
136. Wong KS, Wang Y, Leng X, Mao C, Tang J, Bath PM, et al. Early dual
versus mono antiplatelet therapy for acute non-cardioembolic
ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis. Circulation 2013;128:1656-66.
137. Zhang Q, Wang C, Zheng M, Li Y, Li J, Zhang L, et al. Aspirin plus
clopidogrel as secondary prevention after stroke or transient
ischemic attack: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Cerebrovasc Dis 2015;39:13-22.
138. Niu PP, Guo ZN, Jin H, Xing YQ, Yang Y. Antiplatelet regimens in the
long-term secondary prevention of transient ischaemic attack and
ischaemic stroke: an updated network meta-analysis. BMJ Open
2016;6:e009013.
139. Lennard N, Smith JL, Hayes P, Evans DH, Abbott RJ, London NJ, et al.
Transcranial Doppler directed dextran therapy in the prevention of
carotid thrombosis: three hour monitoring is as effective as six
hours. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1999;17:301-5.
140. Levi CR, Stork JL, Chambers BR, Abbott AL, Cameron HM, Peeters A,
et al. Dextran reduces embolic signals after carotid endarterectomy.
Ann Neurol 2001;50:544-7.
141. Hayes P, Lennard N, Smith J, Abbott R, Evans D, London N, et al.
Vascular surgical society of great britain and ireland: transcranial
Doppler-directed dextran therapy in the prevention of postoperative carotid thrombosis. Br J Surg 1999;86:692.
142. Abir F, Barkhordarian S, Sumpio BE. Efﬁcacy of dextran solutions in
vascular surgery. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2004;38:483-91.
143. Robless P, Okonko D, Tegos T, Mansﬁeld A, Stansby G. Vascular
surgical society of great britain and ireland: platelet function during
carotid endarterectomy and the antiplatelet effect of dextran 40. Br
J Surg 1999;86:709.

86S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

144. Robless PA, Tegos TJ, Okonko D, Mansﬁeld AO, Nicolaides AN,
Mikhailidis DP, et al. Platelet activation during carotid endarterectomy and the antiplatelet effect of Dextran 40. Platelets 2002;13:
231-9.
145. Jones CI, Payne DA, Hayes PD, Naylor AR, Bell PR, Thompson MM,
et al. The antithrombotic effect of dextran-40 in man is due to
enhanced ﬁbrinolysis in vivo. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:715-22.
146. Farber A, Tan TW, Rybin D, Kalish JA, Hamburg NM, Doros G, et al.
Intraoperative use of dextran is associated with cardiac complications after carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2013;57:635-41.
147. Asiddao CB, Donegan JH, Whitesell RC, Kalbﬂeisch JH. Factors
associated with perioperative complications during carotid endarterectomy. Anesth Analg 1982;61:631-7.
148. Towne JB, Bernhard VM. The relationship of postoperative hypertension to complications following carotid endarterectomy. Surgery
1980;88:575-80.
149. Payne DA, Twigg MW, Hayes PD, Naylor AR. Antiplatelet agents and
risk factors for bleeding postcarotid endarterectomy. Ann Vasc Surg
2010;24:900-7.
150. Naylor AR, Evans J, Thompson MM, London NJ, Abbott RJ,
Cherryman G, et al. Seizures after carotid endarterectomy: hyperperfusion, dysautoregulation or hypertensive encephalopathy? Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2003;26:39-44.
151. Wijeysundera DN, Duncan D, Nkonde-Price C, Virani SS,
Washam JB, Fleischmann KE, et al. Perioperative beta blockade in
noncardiac surgery: a systematic review for the 2014 ACC/AHA
guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery: a report of the
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on practice guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol 2014;64:2406-25.
152. Hindler K, Shaw AD, Samuels J, Fulton S, Collard CD, Riedel B.
Improved postoperative outcomes associated with preoperative
statin therapy. Anesthesiology 2006;105:1260-72. quiz 1289-90.
153. Durazzo AE, Machado FS, Ikeoka DT, De Bernoche C, Monachini MC,
Puech-Leao P, et al. Reduction in cardiovascular events after
vascular surgery with atorvastatin: a randomized trial. J Vasc Surg
2004;39:967-75; discussion: 975-6.
154. Lindenauer PK, Pekow P, Wang K, Gutierrez B, Benjamin EM. Lipidlowering therapy and in-hospital mortality following major
noncardiac surgery. JAMA 2004;291:2092-9.
155. Molloy KJ, Thompson MM, Schwalbe EC, Bell PR, Naylor AR,
Loftus IM. Comparison of levels of matrix metalloproteinases, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases, interleukins, and tissue necrosis factor in carotid endarterectomy specimens from patients
on versus not on statins preoperatively. Am J Cardiol 2004;94:
144-6.
156. Biccard BM. A peri-operative statin update for non-cardiac surgery.
Part II: Statin therapy for vascular surgery and peri-operative statin
trial design. Anaesthesia 2008;63:162-71.
157. Perler BA. The effect of statin medications on perioperative and
long-term outcomes following carotid endarterectomy or stenting.
Semin Vasc Surg 2007;20:252-8.
158. Schouten O, Kertai MD, Bax JJ, Durazzo AE, Biagini E, Boersma E,
et al. Safety of perioperative statin use in high-risk patients undergoing major vascular surgery. Am J Cardiol 2005;95:658-60.
159. Merritt JC, Bhatt DL. The efﬁcacy and safety of perioperative antiplatelet therapy. J Thromb Thrombolysis 2004;17:21-7.
160. Taylor DW, Barnett HJ, Haynes RB, Ferguson GG, Sackett DL,
Thorpe KE, et al. Low-dose and high-dose acetylsalicylic acid for
patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy: a randomised
controlled trial. ASA and Carotid Endarterectomy (ACE) Trial Collaborators. Lancet 1999;353:2179-84.
161. Lindblad B, Persson NH, Takolander R, Bergqvist D. Does low-dose
acetylsalicylic acid prevent stroke after carotid surgery? A doubleblind, placebo-controlled randomized trial. Stroke 1993;24:1125-8.
162. Gerstein NS, Schulman PM, Gerstein WH, Petersen TR, Tawil I.
Should more patients continue aspirin therapy perioperatively?:
clinical impact of aspirin withdrawal syndrome. Ann Surg 2012;255:
811-9.
163. Biccard BM, Sigamani A, Chan MTV, Sessler DI, Kurz A, Tittley JG,
et al. Effect of aspirin in vascular surgery in patients from a randomized clinical trial (POISE-2). Br J Surg 2018;105:1591-7.
164. Barkat M, Hajibandeh S, Hajibandeh S, Torella F, Antoniou GA.
Systematic review and meta-analysis of dual versus single

antiplatelet therapy in carotid interventions. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2017;53:53-67.
165. Stone DH, Goodney PP, Schanzer A, Nolan BW, Adams JE,
Powell RJ, et al. Clopidogrel is not associated with major bleeding
complications during peripheral arterial surgery. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:
779-84.
166. McKevitt FM, Randall MS, Cleveland TJ, Gaines PA, Tan KT,
Venables GS. The beneﬁts of combined anti-platelet treatment in
carotid artery stenting. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;29:522-7.
167. Navarese EP, Andreotti F, Schulze V, Kolodziejczak M, Buffon A,
Brouwer M, et al. Optimal duration of dual antiplatelet therapy after
percutaneous coronary intervention with drug eluting stents: metaanalysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 2015;350:h1618.
168. Barnett HJ, Taylor DW, Eliasziw M, Fox AJ, Ferguson GG, Haynes RB,
et al. Beneﬁt of carotid endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic moderate or severe stenosis. North American Symptomatic
Carotid Endarterectomy Trial Collaborators. N Engl J Med 1998;339:
1415-25.
169. Halliday A, Mansﬁeld A, Marro J, Peto C, Peto R, Potter J, et al. Prevention of disabling and fatal strokes by successful carotid endarterectomy in patients without recent neurological symptoms:
randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2004;363:1491-502.
170. Chambers BR, Donnan GA. Carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2005:
Cd001923.
171. Simonian GT, Pappas PJ, Padberg FT Jr, Samit A, Silva MB Jr, Jamil Z,
et al. Mandibular subluxation for distal internal carotid exposure:
technical considerations. J Vasc Surg 1999;30:1116-20.
172. Wyers MC, Powell RJ, Fillinger MF, Nolan BW, Cronenwett JL. The
value of 3D-CT angiographic assessment prior to carotid stenting.
J Vasc Surg 2009;49:614-22.
173. Faggioli G, Ferri M, Gargiulo M, Freyrie A, Fratesi F, Manzoli L, et al.
Measurement and impact of proximal and distal tortuosity in carotid stenting procedures. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:1119-24.
174. Jaspers GW, Witjes MJ, van den Dungen JJ, Reintsema H,
Zeebregts CJ. Mandibular subluxation for distal internal carotid
artery exposure in edentulous patients. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:1519-22.
175. Moore WS, Popma JJ, Roubin GS, Voeks JH, Cutlip DE, Jones M, et al.
Carotid angiographic characteristics in the CREST trial were major
contributors to periprocedural stroke and death differences between carotid artery stenting and carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc
Surg 2016;63:851-7.8.e1.
176. Wu WW, Liang P, O’Donnell TFX, Swerdlow NJ, Li C, Wyers MC,
et al. Anatomic eligibility for transcarotid artery revascularization and transfemoral carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg
2019;69:1452-60.
177. Kwolek CJ, Jaff MR, Leal JI, Hopkins LN, Shah RM, Hanover TM, et al.
Results of the ROADSTER multicenter trial of transcarotid stenting
with dynamic ﬂow reversal. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:1227-34.
178. Malas M, Nejim BJ, Kwolek CJ, Leal Lorenzo J, Hanover T, Mehta M,
et al. One-year results of the ROADSTER multicenter trial of transcarotid stenting with dynamic ﬂow reversal. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:e5.
179. Archie JP Jr. Carotid endarterectomy for string sign internal carotid
arteries. Annual Meeting Abstracts. J Vasc Surg 1993;17:1114-5.
180. Koutsoumpelis A, Kouvelos G, Peroulis M, Tzilalis V, Matsagkas M.
Surgical and endovascular intervention on internal carotid artery
near occlusion. Int Angiol 2015;34:172-81.
181. Chang CK, Huded CP, Nolan BW, Powell RJ. Prevalence and clinical
signiﬁcance of stent fracture and deformation following carotid
artery stenting. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:685-90.
182. Gasparis AP, Ricotta L, Cuadra SA, Char DJ, Purtill WA, Van
Bemmelen PS, et al. High-risk carotid endarterectomy: fact or ﬁction. J Vasc Surg 2003;37:40-6.
183. Mozes G, Sullivan TM, Torres-Russotto DR, Bower TC, Hoskin TL,
Sampaio SM, et al. Carotid endarterectomy in SAPPHIRE-eligible
high-risk patients: implications for selecting patients for carotid
angioplasty and stenting. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:958-65; discussion:
965-6.
184. AbuRahma AF, Abu-Halimah S, Bensenhaver J, Nanjundappa A,
Stone PA, Dean LS, et al. Primary carotid artery stenting versus carotid artery stenting for postcarotid endarterectomy stenosis. J Vasc
Surg 2009;50:1031-9.
185. Massop D, Dave R, Metzger C, Bachinsky W, Solis M, Shah R, et al.
Stenting and angioplasty with protection in patients at high-risk for

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

87S

Volume 75, Number 1S
endarterectomy: SAPPHIRE Worldwide Registry ﬁrst 2,001 patients.
Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2009;73:129-36.
186. Kang JL, Chung TK, Lancaster RT, Lamuraglia GM, Conrad MF,
Cambria RP. Outcomes after carotid endarterectomy: is there a
high-risk population? A National Surgical Quality Improvement
Program report. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:331-8.9.e1; discussion: 338-9.
187. Bangalore S, Kumar S, Wetterslev J, Bavry AA, Gluud C, Cutlip DE,
et al. Carotid artery stenting vs carotid endarterectomy: metaanalysis and diversity-adjusted trial sequential analysis of randomized trials. Arch Neurol 2011;68:172-84.
188. Jackson BM, English SJ, Fairman RM, Karmacharya J, Carpenter JP,
Woo EY. Carotid artery stenting: identiﬁcation of risk factors for poor
outcomes. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:74-9.
189. Saw J, Gurm HS, Fathi RB, Bhatt DL, Abou-Chebl A, Bajzer C, et al.
Effect of chronic kidney disease on outcomes after carotid artery
stenting. Am J Cardiol 2004;94:1093-6.
190. Ascher E, Marks NA, Schutzer RW, Hingorani AP. Carotid endarterectomy in patients with chronic renal insufﬁciency: a recent series
of 184 cases. J Vasc Surg 2005;41:24-9.
191. Hamdan AD, Pomposelli FB Jr, Gibbons GW, Campbell DR,
LoGerfo FW. Renal insufﬁciency and altered postoperative risk in
carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 1999;29:1006-11.
192. Maatz W, Kohler J, Botsios S, John V, Walterbusch G. Risk of stroke
for carotid endarterectomy patients with contralateral carotid occlusion. Ann Vasc Surg 2008;22:45-51.
193. Rockman CB, Su W, Lamparello PJ, Adelman MA, Jacobowitz GR,
Gagne PJ, et al. A reassessment of carotid endarterectomy in the
face of contralateral carotid occlusion: surgical results in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. J Vasc Surg 2002;36:668-73.
194. Halliday A, Harrison M, Hayter E, Kong X, Mansﬁeld A, Marro J, et al.
10-year stroke prevention after successful carotid endarterectomy
for asymptomatic stenosis (ACST-1): a multicentre randomised trial.
Lancet 2010;376:1074-84.
195. Mackey WC, O’Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD. Carotid endarterectomy
contralateral to an occluded carotid artery: perioperative risk and
late results. J Vasc Surg 1990;11:778-83; discussion: 784-5.
196. AbuRahma AF, Robinson P, Holt SM, Herzog TA, Mowery NT. Perioperative and late stroke rates of carotid endarterectomy contralateral to carotid artery occlusion : results from a randomized trial.
Stroke 2000;31:1566-71.
197. Bonati LH, Fraedrich G. Age modiﬁes the relative risk of stenting
versus endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis–a pooled
analysis of EVA-3S, SPACE and ICSS. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2011;41:153-8.
198. Gray WA, Yadav JS, Verta P, Scicli A, Fairman R, Wholey M, et al.
The CAPTURE registry: predictors of outcomes in carotid artery
stenting with embolic protection for high surgical risk patients in
the early post-approval setting. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv
2007;70:1025-33.
199. Howard G, Roubin GS, Jansen O, Hendrikse J, Halliday A,
Fraedrich G, et al. Association between age and risk of stroke or
death from carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting: a metaanalysis of pooled patient data from four randomised trials. Lancet 2016;387:1305-11.
200. Hicks CW, Nejim B, Locham S, Aridi HD, Schermerhorn ML,
Malas MB. Association between Medicare high-risk criteria and
outcomes after carotid revascularization procedures. J Vasc Surg
2018;67:1752-61.e2.
201. Yadav JS, Wholey MH, Kuntz RE, Fayad P, Katzen BT, Mishkel GJ,
et al. Protected carotid-artery stenting versus endarterectomy in
high-risk patients. N Engl J Med 2004;351:1493-501.
202. Müller MD, Lyrer P, Brown MM, Bonati LH. Carotid artery stenting
versus endarterectomy for treatment of carotid artery stenosis.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2020;2:Cd000515.
203. Brott TG, Howard G, Roubin GS, Meschia JF, Mackey A, Brooks W,
et al. Long-term results of stenting versus endarterectomy for
carotid-artery stenosis. N Engl J Med 2016;374:1021-31.
204. Hopkins LN, Roubin GS, Chakhtoura EY, Gray WA, Ferguson RD,
Katzen BT, et al. The Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy
versus Stenting Trial: credentialing of interventionalists and ﬁnal
results of lead-in phase. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis 2010;19:153-62.
205. Nallamothu BK, Gurm HS, Ting HH, Goodney PP, Rogers MA,
Curtis JP, et al. Operator experience and carotid stenting outcomes
in Medicare beneﬁciaries. JAMA 2011;306:1338-43.

206. Nolan BW, De Martino RR, Goodney PP, Schanzer A, Stone DH,
Butzel D, et al. Comparison of carotid endarterectomy and stenting
in real world practice using a regional quality improvement registry.
J Vasc Surg 2012;56:990-6.
207. Schermerhorn ML, Liang P, Eldrup-Jorgensen J, Cronenwett JL,
Nolan BW, Kashyap VS, et al. Association of transcarotid artery
revascularization vs transfemoral carotid artery stenting with stroke
or death among patients with carotid artery stenosis. JAMA
2019;322:2313-22.
208. Malas MB, Dakour-Aridi H, Kashyap VS, Eldrup-Jorgensen J,
Wang GJ, Motaganahalli RL, et al. TransCarotid revascularization
with dynamic ﬂow reversal versus carotid endarterectomy in the
Vascular Quality Initiative Surveillance Project. Ann Surg 2020. doi:
10.1097/SLA.0000000000004496.
209. Columbo JA, Martinez-Camblor P, O’Malley AJ, Stone DH,
Kashyap VS, Powell RJ, et al. Association of adoption of transcarotid
artery revascularization with center-level perioperative outcomes.
JAMA Network Open 2021;4:e2037885.
210. Lal BK, Jordan W, Kashyap VS, Kwolek CJ, Moore WS, Mukherjee D,
et al. Clinical competence statement of the Society for Vascular
Surgery on training and credentialing for transcarotid artery revascularization. J Vasc Surg 2020;72:779-89.
211. Roubin GS, New G, Iyer SS, Vitek JJ, Al-Mubarak N, Liu MW, et al.
Immediate and late clinical outcomes of carotid artery stenting in
patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: a 5-year prospective analysis. Circulation 2001;103:532-7.
212. Wholey MH, Al-Mubarek N, Wholey MH. Updated review of the
global carotid artery stent registry. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv
2003;60:259-66.
213. Gray WA, Chaturvedi S, Verta P. Thirty-day outcomes for carotid
artery stenting in 6320 patients from 2 prospective, multicenter,
high-surgical-risk registries. Circ Cardiovasc Interv 2009;2:159-66.
214. Gray WA, Hopkins LN, Yadav S, Davis T, Wholey M, Atkinson R, et al.
Protected carotid stenting in high-surgical-risk patients: the
ARCHeR results. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:258-68.
215. Higashida RT, Popma JJ, Apruzzese P, Zimetbaum P. Evaluation of
the Medtronic exponent self-expanding carotid stent system with
the Medtronic guardwire temporary occlusion and aspiration system in the treatment of carotid stenosis: combined from the
MAVErIC (Medtronic AVE Self-expanding CaRotid Stent System
with distal protection In the treatment of Carotid stenosis) I and
MAVErIC II trials. Stroke 2010;41:e102-9.
216. Zarins CK, White RA, Diethrich EB, Shackelton RJ, Siami FS. Carotid
revascularization using endarterectomy or stenting systems
(CaRESS): 4-year outcomes. J Endovasc Ther 2009;16:397-409.
217. LoGerfo FW. Carotid stents: unleashed, unproven. Circulation
2007;116:1596-601; discussion: 601.
218. Naylor AR, Bell PR. Treatment of asymptomatic carotid disease with
stenting: con. Semin Vasc Surg 2008;21:100-7.
219. Brott TG, Halperin JL, Abbara S, Bacharach JM, Barr JD, Bush RL,
et al. 2011 ASA/ACCF/AHA/AANN/AANS/ACR/ASNR/CNS/SAIP/SCAI/
SIR/SNIS/SVM/SVS guideline on the management of patients with
extracranial carotid and vertebral artery disease: executive summary. Stroke 2011;42:e420-63.
220. Rosenﬁeld K, Matsumura JS, Chaturvedi S, Riles T, Ansel GM,
Metzger DC, et al. Randomized Trial of Stent versus Surgery for
Asymptomatic Carotid Stenosis. N Engl J Med 2016;374:1011-20.
221. Sidawy AN, Zwolak RM, White RA, Siami FS, Schermerhorn ML,
Sicard GA. Risk-adjusted 30-day outcomes of carotid stenting and
endarterectomy: results from the SVS Vascular Registry. J Vasc Surg
2009;49:71-9.
222. McCleary AJ, Dearden NM, Dickson DH, Watson A, Gough MJ. The
differing effects of regional and general anaesthesia on cerebral
metabolism during carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 1996;12:173-81.
223. Hakl M, Michalek P, Sevcik P, Pavlikova J, Stern M. Regional anaesthesia for carotid endarterectomy: an audit over 10 years. Br J
Anaesth 2007;99:415-20.
224. Pandit JJ, Satya-Krishna R, Gration P. Superﬁcial or deep cervical
plexus block for carotid endarterectomy: a systematic review of
complications. Br J Anaesth 2007;99:159-69.
225. Wells BA, Keats AS, Cooley DA. Increased tolerance to cerebral
ischemia produced by general anesthesia during temporary carotid
occlusion. Surgery 1963;54:216-23.

88S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

226. Halm EA, Hannan EL, Rojas M, Tuhrim S, Riles TS, Rockman CB, et al.
Clinical and operative predictors of outcomes of carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:420-8.
227. Stoner MC, Abbott WM, Wong DR, Hua HT, Lamuraglia GM,
Kwolek CJ, et al. Deﬁning the high-risk patient for carotid endarterectomy: an analysis of the prospective National Surgical Quality
Improvement Program database. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:285-95; discussion: 295-6.
228. Lewis SC, Warlow CP, Bodenham AR, Colam B, Rothwell PM,
Torgerson D, et al. General anaesthesia versus local anaesthesia for
carotid surgery (GALA): a multicentre, randomised controlled trial.
Lancet 2008;372:2132-42.
229. Binder M, Dreiseitl S. The interpretation of test results. J Cutan Med
Surg 2000;4:19-25.
230. Forssell C, Takolander R, Bergqvist D, Johansson A, Persson NH.
Local versus general anaesthesia in carotid surgery. A prospective,
randomised study. Eur J Vasc Surg 1989;3:503-9.
231. Kasprzak PM, Altmeppen J, Angerer M, Mann S, Mackh J, Topel I.
General versus locoregional anesthesia in carotid surgery: a prospective randomised trial. Vasa 2006;35:232-8.
232. Pluskwa F, Bonnet F, Abhay K, Touboul C, Rey B, Marcandoro J, et al.
[Comparison of blood pressure proﬁles with ﬂunitrazepam/fentanyl/nitrous oxide vs cervical epidural anesthesia in surgery of the
carotid artery]. Ann Fr Anesth Reanim 1989;8:26-32.
233. Prough DS, Scuderi PE, McWhorter JM, Balestrieri FJ, Davis CH Jr,
Stullken EH. Hemodynamic status following regional and general
anesthesia for carotid endarterectomy. J Neurosurg Anesthesiol
1989;1:35-40.
234. JM R, Trigg R, John C, Gough MJ, Horrocks M. Patient satisfaction for
carotid endarterectomy performed under local anaesthesia. Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2004;27:654-9.
235. Sbarigia E, DarioVizza C, Antonini M, Speziale F, Maritti M, Fiorani B,
et al. Locoregional versus general anesthesia in carotid surgery: is
there an impact on perioperative myocardial ischemia? Results of a
prospective monocentric randomized trial. J Vasc Surg 1999;30:
131-8.
236. Vaniyapong T, Chongruksut W, Rerkasem K. Local versus general
anaesthesia for carotid endarterectomy. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2013:Cd000126.
237. Hye RJ, Voeks JH, Malas MB, Tom M, Longson S, Blackshear JL, et al.
Anesthetic type and risk of myocardial infarction after carotid
endarterectomy in the Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy
versus Stenting Trial (CREST). J Vasc Surg 2016;64:3-8.e1.
238. Dakour Aridi H, Paracha N, Nejim B, Locham S, Malas MB. Anesthetic type and hospital outcomes after carotid endarterectomy
from the Vascular Quality Initiative database. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:
1419-28.
239. Hussain AS, Mullard A, Oppat WF, Nolan KD. Increased resource
utilization and overall morbidity are associated with general versus
regional anesthesia for carotid endarterectomy in data collected by
the Michigan Surgical Quality Collaborative. J Vasc Surg 2017;66:
802-9.
240. Kfoury E, Dort J, Trickey A, Crosby M, Donovan J, Hashemi H, et al.
Carotid endarterectomy under local and/or regional anesthesia has
less risk of myocardial infarction compared to general anesthesia:
An analysis of national surgical quality improvement program
database. Vascular 2015;23:113-9.
241. Leichtle
SW,
Mouawad
NJ,
Welch
K,
Lampman
R,
Whitehouse WM Jr, Heidenreich M. Outcomes of carotid endarterectomy under general and regional anesthesia from the American
College of Surgeons’ National Surgical Quality Improvement Program. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:81-88.e3.
242. Horlocker TT, Wedel DJ, Rowlingson JC, Enneking FK, Kopp SL,
Benzon HT, et al. Regional anesthesia in the patient receiving
antithrombotic or thrombolytic therapy: American Society of
Regional Anesthesia and Pain Medicine Evidence-Based Guidelines
(Third Edition). Reg Anesth Pain Med 2010;35:64-101.
243. Stoneham MD, Stamou D, Mason J. Regional anaesthesia for carotid
endarterectomy. Br J Anaesth 2015;114:372-83.
244. Rerkasem K, Rothwell PM. Local versus general anaesthesia for carotid endarterectomy. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2008:
Cd000126.
245. Ascher E, Hingorani A, Marks N, Schutzer RW, Mutyala M, Nahata S,
et al. Mini skin incision for carotid endarterectomy (CEA): a new and

safe alternative to the standard approach. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:
1089-93.
246. Bastounis E, Bakoyiannis C, Cagiannos C, Klonaris C, Filis C,
Bastouni EE, et al. A short incision for carotid endarterectomy results in decreased morbidity. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2007;33:
652-6.
247. Marcucci G, Antonelli R, Gabrielli R, Accrocca F, Giordano AG,
Siani A. Short longitudinal versus transverse skin incision for carotid endarterectomy: impact on cranial and cervical nerve injuries and esthetic outcome. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2011;52:
145-52.
248. Stone DH, Nolan BW, Schanzer A, Goodney PP, Cambria RA,
Likosky DS, et al. Protamine reduces bleeding complications associated with carotid endarterectomy without increasing the risk of
stroke. J Vasc Surg 2010;51:559-64.e1.
249. Patel RB, Beaulieu P, Homa K, Goodney PP, Stanley AC,
Cronenwett JL, et al. Shared quality data are associated with
increased protamine use and reduced bleeding complications after
carotid endarterectomy in the Vascular Study Group of New England. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:1518-24.e1.
250. Kakisis JD, Antonopoulos CN, Mantas G, Moulakakis KG, Sfyroeras G,
Geroulakos G. Cranial nerve injury after carotid endarterectomy:
incidence, risk factors, and time trends. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2017;53:320-35.
251. Newhall KA, Saunders EC, Larson RJ, Stone DH, Goodney PP. Use of
protamine for anticoagulation during carotid endarterectomy: a
meta-analysis. JAMA Surg 2016;151:247-55.
252. Aburahma AF, Mousa AY, Stone PA. Shunting during carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:1502-10.
253. Nwachuku EL, Balzer JR, Yabes JG, Habeych ME, Crammond DJ,
Thirumala PD. Diagnostic value of somatosensory evoked potential
changes during carotid endarterectomy: a systematic review and
meta-analysis. JAMA Neurol 2015;72:73-80.
254. Jonsson M, Lindstrom D, Wanhainen A, Djavani Gidlund K,
Gillgren P. Near infrared spectroscopy as a predictor for shunt
requirement during carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2017;53:783-91.
255. Udesh R, Natarajan P, Thiagarajan K, Wechsler LR, Crammond DJ,
Balzer JR, et al. Transcranial Doppler monitoring in carotid endarterectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Ultrasound
Med 2017;36:621-30.
256. Knappich C, Kuehnl A, Tsantilas P, Schmid S, Breitkreuz T,
Kallmayer M, et al. Intraoperative completion studies, local anesthesia, and antiplatelet medication are associated with lower risk in
carotid endarterectomy. Stroke 2017;48:955-62.
257. Wiske C, Arhuidese I, Malas M, Patterson R. Comparing the efﬁcacy of
shunting approaches and cerebral monitoring during carotid endarterectomy using a national database. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:416-25.
258. Chongruksut W, Vaniyapong T, Rerkasem K. Routine or selective
carotid artery shunting for carotid endarterectomy (and different
methods of monitoring in selective shunting). Cochrane Database
Syst Rev 2014:Cd000190.
259. AbuRahma AF, Hannay RS, Khan JH, Robinson PA, Hudson JK,
Davis EA. Prospective randomized study of carotid endarterectomy
with polytetraﬂuoroethylene versus collagen-impregnated Dacron
(Hemashield) patching: perioperative (30-day) results. J Vasc Surg
2002;35:125-30.
260. AbuRahma AF, Hopkins ES, Robinson PA, Deel JT, Agarwal S. Prospective randomized trial of carotid endarterectomy with polytetraﬂuoroethylene
versus
collagen-impregnated
dacron
(Hemashield) patching: late follow-up. Ann Surg 2003;237:885-92;
discussion: 892-3.
261. AbuRahma AF, Khan JH, Robinson PA, Saiedy S, Short YS,
Boland JP, et al. Prospective randomized trial of carotid endarterectomy with primary closure and patch angioplasty with
saphenous vein, jugular vein, and polytetraﬂuoroethylene: perioperative (30-day) results. J Vasc Surg 1996;24:998-1006; discussion: 1007.
262. AbuRahma AF, Robinson P, Richmond B. Reanalysis of factors
predicting recurrent stenosis in a prospective randomized trial of
carotid endarterectomy comparing primary closure and patch
closure. Vasc Surg 2000;34:319-29.
263. AbuRahma AF, Robinson PA, Saiedy S, Kahn JH, Boland JP. Prospective randomized trial of carotid endarterectomy with primary

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

89S

Volume 75, Number 1S
closure and patch angioplasty with saphenous vein, jugular vein,
and polytetraﬂuoroethylene: long-term follow-up. J Vasc Surg
1998;27:222-32; discussion: 233-4.
264. AbuRahma AF, Robinson PA, Saiedy S, Richmond BK, Khan J. Prospective randomized trial of bilateral carotid endarterectomies:
primary closure versus patching. Stroke 1999;30:1185-9.
265. Aburahma AF, Stone PA, Elmore M, Flaherty SK, Armistead L,
AbuRahma Z. Prospective randomized trial of ACUSEAL (Gore-Tex)
vs Finesse (Hemashield) patching during carotid endarterectomy:
long-term outcome. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:99-103.
266. Al-Rawi PG, Turner CL, Waran V, Ng I, Kirkpatrick PJ. A randomized
trial of synthetic patch versus direct primary closure in carotid
endarterectomy. Neurosurgery 2006;59:822-8; discussion: 828-9.
267. Archie JP Jr. Prospective randomized trials of carotid endarterectomy with primary closure and patch reconstruction: the problem is
power. J Vasc Surg 1997;25:1118-20.
268. Archie JP Jr. A ﬁfteen-year experience with carotid endarterectomy
after a formal operative protocol requiring highly frequent patch
angioplasty. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:724-35.
269. Bond R, Rerkasem K, Naylor AR, Aburahma AF, Rothwell PM. Systematic review of randomized controlled trials of patch angioplasty
versus primary closure and different types of patch materials during
carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2004;40:1126-35.
270. Clagett GP, Patterson CB, Fisher DF Jr, Fry RE, Eidt JF, Humble TH,
et al. Vein patch versus primary closure for carotid endarterectomy.
A randomized prospective study in a selected group of patients.
J Vasc Surg 1989;9:213-23.
271. Counsell CE, Salinas R, Naylor R, Warlow CP. A systematic review of
the randomised trials of carotid patch angioplasty in carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 1997;13:345-54.
272. De Vleeschauwer P, Wirthle W, Holler L, Krause E, Horsch S. Is
venous patch grafting after carotid endarterectomy able to reduce
the rate of restenosis? Prospective randomized pilot study with
stratiﬁcation. Acta Chir Belg 1987;87:242-6.
273. Eikelboom BC, Ackerstaff RG, Hoeneveld H, Ludwig JW, Teeuwen C,
Vermeulen FE, et al. Beneﬁts of carotid patching: a randomized
study. J Vasc Surg 1988;7:240-7.
274. Hayes PD, Allroggen H, Steel S, Thompson MM, London NJ, Bell PR,
et al. Randomized trial of vein versus Dacron patching during carotid endarterectomy: inﬂuence of patch type on postoperative
embolization. J Vasc Surg 2001;33:994-1000.
275. Hertzer NR, Mascha EJ. A personal experience with coronary artery
bypass grafting, carotid patching, and other factors inﬂuencing the
outcome of carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:959-68.
276. Katz D, Snyder SO, Gandhi RH, Wheeler JR, Gregory RT, Gayle RG,
et al. Long-term follow-up for recurrent stenosis: a prospective
randomized study of expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene patch angioplasty versus primary closure after carotid endarterectomy.
J Vasc Surg 1994;19:198-203; discussion: 204-5.
277. Kresowik TF, Bratzler DW, Kresowik RA, Hendel ME, Grund SL,
Brown KR, et al. Multistate improvement in process and outcomes
of carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:372-80.
278. Lord RS, Raj TB, Stary DL, Nash PA, Graham AR, Goh KH. Comparison of saphenous vein patch, polytetraﬂuoroethylene patch, and
direct arteriotomy closure after carotid endarterectomy. Part I.
Perioperative results. J Vasc Surg 1989;9:521-9.
279. Mannheim D, Weller B, Vahadim E, Karmeli R. Carotid endarterectomy with a polyurethane patch versus primary closure: a prospective randomized study. J Vasc Surg 2005;41:403-7; discussion:
407-8.
280. Myers SI, Valentine RJ, Chervu A, Bowers BL, Clagett GP. Saphenous
vein patch versus primary closure for carotid endarterectomy: longterm assessment of a randomized prospective study. J Vasc Surg
1994;19:15-22.
281. Naylor R, Hayes PD, Payne DA, Allroggen H, Steel S, Thompson MM,
et al. Randomized trial of vein versus dacron patching during carotid endarterectomy: long-term results. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:
985-93; discussion: 993.
282. O’Hara PJ, Hertzer NR, Mascha EJ, Krajewski LP, Clair DG, Ouriel K.
A prospective, randomized study of saphenous vein patching versus
synthetic patching during carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg
2002;35:324-32.
283. Ranaboldo CJ, Barros D’Sa AA, Bell PR, Chant AD, Perry PM. Randomized controlled trial of patch angioplasty for carotid

endarterectomy. The Joint Vascular Research Group. Br J Surg
1993;80:1528-30.
284. Rerkasem K, Rothwell PM. Systematic review of the operative risks
of carotid endarterectomy for recently symptomatic stenosis in
relation to the timing of surgery. Stroke 2009;40:e564-72.
285. Rockman CB, Halm EA, Wang JJ, Chassin MR, Tuhrim S,
Formisano P, et al. Primary closure of the carotid artery is associated
with poorer outcomes during carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg
2005;42:870-7.
286. Archie JP Jr. Prevention of early restenosis and thrombosisocclusion after carotid endarterectomy by saphenous vein patch
angioplasty. Stroke 1986;17:901-5.
287. Dirrenberger RA, Sundt TM Jr. Carotid endarterectomy. Temporal
proﬁle of the healing process and effects of anticoagulation therapy. J NeuroSurg 1978;48:201-19.
288. Deriu GP, Ballotta E, Bonavina L, Grego F, Alvino S, Franceschi L, et al.
The rationale for patch-graft angioplasty after carotid endarterectomy: early and long-term follow-up. Stroke 1984;15:972-9.
289. Rerkasem K, Rothwell PM. Patch angioplasty versus primary closure
for carotid endarterectomy. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2009:
Cd000160.
290. Malas M, Glebova NO, Hughes SE, Voeks JH, Qazi U, Moore WS, et al.
Effect of patching on reducing restenosis in the carotid revascularization endarterectomy versus stenting trial. Stroke 2015;46:
757-61.
291. Edenﬁeld L, Blazick E, Healey C, Hawkins R, Bloch P, EldrupJorgensen J, et al. Long-term impact of the Vascular Study Group of
New England carotid patch quality initiative. J Vasc Surg 2019;69:
1801-6.
292. Bond R, Rerkasem K, AbuRahma AF, Naylor AR, Rothwell PM. Patch
angioplasty versus primary closure for carotid endarterectomy.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2004:Cd000160.
293. Rerkasem K, Rothwell PM. Systematic review of randomized
controlled trials of patch angioplasty versus primary closure and
different types of patch materials during carotid endarterectomy.
Asian J Surg 2011;34:32-40.
294. Cao P, De Rango P, Zannetti S. Eversion vs conventional carotid
endarterectomy: a systematic review. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2002;23:195-201.
295. Schneider JR, Helenowski IB, Jackson CR, Verta MJ, Zamor KC,
Patel NH, et al. A comparison of results with eversion versus conventional carotid endarterectomy from the Vascular Quality Initiative and the Mid-America Vascular Study Group. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:
1216-22.
296. Paraskevas KI, Robertson V, Saratzis AN, Naylor AR. Editor’s choice an updated systematic review and meta-analysis of outcomes
following eversion vs. conventional carotid endarterectomy in
randomised controlled trials and observational studies. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2018;55:465-73.
297. Huizing E, Vos CG, van den Akker PJ, Schreve MA, de Borst GJ,
Ünlü Ç. A systematic review of patch angioplasty versus primary closure for carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2019;69:
1962-74.e4.
298. Counsell C, Salinas R, Warlow C, Naylor R. Patch angioplasty versus
primary closure for carotid endarterectomy. Cochrane Database
Syst Rev 2000:Cd000160.
299. Ren S, Li X, Wen J, Zhang W, Liu P. Systematic review of randomized
controlled trials of different types of patch materials during carotid
endarterectomy. PLoS One 2013;8:e55050.
300. Golledge J, Cuming R, Davies AH, Greenhalgh RM. Outcome of selective patching following carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 1996;11:458-63.
301. Cikrit DF, Larson DM, Sawchuk AP, Thornhill C, Shaﬁque S,
Nachreiner RD, et al. Discretionary carotid patch angioplasty leads
to good results. Am J Surg 2006;192:e46-50.
302. Maertens V, Maertens H, Kint M, Coucke C, Blomme Y. Complication
rate after carotid endarterectomy comparing patch angioplasty
and primary closure. Ann Vasc Surg 2016;30:248-52.
303. Avgerinos ED, Chaer RA, Naddaf A, El-Shazly OM, Marone L,
Makaroun MS. Primary closure after carotid endarterectomy is not
inferior to other closure techniques. J Vasc Surg 2016;64:678-83.e1.
304. Bond R, Rerkasem K, Naylor R, Rothwell PM. Patches of different
types for carotid patch angioplasty. Cochrane Database Syst Rev
2004:Cd000071.

90S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

305. Gonzalez-Fajardo JA, Perez JL, Mateo AM. Saphenous vein patch
versus polytetraﬂuoroethylene patch after carotid endarterectomy.
J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1994;35:523-8.
306. Katz SG, Kohl RD. Does the choice of material inﬂuence early
morbidity in patients undergoing carotid patch angioplasty? Surgery 1996;119:297-301.
307. Biasi GM, Sternjakob S, Mingazzini PM, Ferrari SA. Nine-year experience of bovine pericardium patch angioplasty during carotid
endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2002;36:271-7.
308. Stone PA, AbuRahma AF, Mousa AY, Phang D, Hass SM, Modak A,
et al. Prospective randomized trial of ACUSEAL versus Vascu-Guard
patching in carotid endarterectomy. Ann Vasc Surg 2014;28:1530-8.
309. Oldenburg WA, Almerey T, Selim M, Farres H, Hakaim AG. Durability
of carotid endarterectomy with bovine pericardial patch. Ann Vasc
Surg 2018;50:218-24.
310. Texakalidis P, Giannopoulos S, Charisis N, Giannopoulos S,
Karasavvidis T, Koullias G, et al. A meta-analysis of randomized trials
comparing bovine pericardium and other patch materials for carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:1241-56.e1.
311. Ballotta E, Da Giau G, Saladini M, Abbruzzese E, Renon L, Toniato A.
Carotid endarterectomy with patch closure versus carotid eversion
endarterectomy and reimplantation: a prospective randomized
study. Surgery 1999;125:271-9.
312. Ballotta E, Renon L, Da Giau G, Toniato A, Baracchini C,
Abbruzzese E, et al. A prospective randomized study on bilateral
carotid endarterectomy: patching versus eversion. Ann Surg
2000;232:119-25.
313. Balzer K, Guds I, Heger J, Jahnel B. [Conventional thrombendarterectomy with carotid patch plasty vs. eversion endarterectomy:
technique, indications and results]. Zentralbl Chir 2000;125:228-38.
314. Cao P, Giordano G, De Rango P, Zannetti S, Chiesa R, Coppi G, et al.
Eversion versus conventional carotid endarterectomy: late results of
a prospective multicenter randomized trial. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:
19-30.
315. Cao P, Giordano G, De Rango P, Zannetti S, Chiesa R, Coppi G, et al.
A randomized study on eversion versus standard carotid endarterectomy: study design and preliminary results: the Everest Trial.
J Vasc Surg 1998;27:595-605.
316. Cao PG, de Rango P, Zannetti S, Giordano G, Ricci S, Celani MG.
Eversion versus conventional carotid endarterectomy for preventing
stroke. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2001:Cd001921.
317. Vanmaele RG, Van Schil PE, DeMaeseneer MG, Meese G, Lehert P,
Van Look RF. Division-endarterectomy-anastomosis of the internal
carotid artery: a prospective randomized comparative study. Cardiovasc Surg 1994;2:573-81.
318. Darling RC 3rd, Paty PS, Shah DM, Chang BB, Leather RP. Eversion
endarterectomy of the internal carotid artery: technique and results
in 449 procedures. Surgery 1996;120:635-9; discussion: 639-40.
319. Entz L, Járányi Z, Nemes A. Comparison of perioperative results
obtained with carotid eversion endarterectomy and with conventional patch plasty. Cardiovasc Surg 1997;5:16-20.
320. Darling RC 3rd, Mehta M, Roddy SP, Paty PS, Kreienberg PB,
Ozsvath KJ, et al. Eversion carotid endarterectomy: a technical
alternative that may obviate patch closure in women. Cardiovasc
Surg 2003;11:347-52.
321. Shah DM, Darling RC 3rd, Chang BB, Paty PS, Kreienberg PB,
Lloyd WE, et al. Carotid endarterectomy by eversion technique: its
safety and durability. Ann Surg 1998;228:471-8.
322. Deser SB, Demirag MK, Kolbakir F. Does surgical technique inﬂuence the postoperative hemodynamic disturbances and neurological outcomes in carotid endarterectomy? Acta Chir Belg
2019;119:78-82.
323. Demirel S, Goossen K, Bruijnen H, Probst P, Bockler D. Systematic
review and meta-analysis of postcarotid endarterectomy hypertension after eversion versus conventional carotid endarterectomy.
J Vasc Surg 2017;65:868-82.
324. Koncar I, Ribac JZ, Ilic NS, Dragas M, Mutavdzic P, Tomic IZ, et al.
Carotid replacement with Dacron graft in 292 patients. Vascular
2016;24:580-9.
325. Branchereau A, Pietri P, Magnan PE, Rosset E. Saphenous vein
bypass: an alternative to internal carotid reconstruction. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 1996;12:26-30.
326. Roddy SP, Darling RC 3rd, Ozsvath KJ, Mehta M, Chang BB, Paty PS,
et al. Choice of material for internal carotid artery bypass grafting:

vein or prosthetic? Analysis of 44 procedures. Cardiovasc Surg
2002;10:540-4.
327. Lauder C, Kelly A, Thompson MM, London NJ, Bell PR, Naylor AR.
Early and late outcome after carotid artery bypass grafting with
saphenous vein. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:1025-30.
328. Dorafshar AH, Reil TD, Ahn SS, Quinones-Baldrich WJ, Moore WS.
Interposition grafts for difﬁcult carotid artery reconstruction: a 17year experience. Ann Vasc Surg 2008;22:63-9.
329. Ricco JB, Marchand C, Neau JP, Marchand E, Cau J, Fébrer G.
Prosthetic carotid bypass grafts for atherosclerotic lesions: a prospective study of 198 consecutive cases. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2009;37:272-8.
330. Naylor AR, Moir A. An aid to accessing the distal internal carotid
artery. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:1345-7.
331. Fisher DF Jr, Clagett GP, Parker JI, Fry RE, Poor MR, Finn RA, et al.
Mandibular subluxation for high carotid exposure. J Vasc Surg
1984;1:727-33.
332. Coll DP, Ierardi R, Mermer RW, Matsumoto T, Kerstein MD. Exposure
of the distal internal carotid artery: a simpliﬁed approach. J Am Coll
Surg 1998;186:92-5.
333. Liu L, Wong KS, Leng X, Pu Y, Wang Y, Jing J, et al. Dual antiplatelet
therapy in stroke and ICAS: Subgroup analysis of CHANCE.
Neurology 2015;85:1154-62.
334. Batchelder A, Hunter J, Cairns V, Sandford R, Munshi A, Naylor AR.
Dual antiplatelet therapy prior to expedited carotid surgery reduces
recurrent events prior to surgery without signiﬁcantly increasing
peri-operative bleeding complications. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2015;50:412-9.
335. Youssef F, Jenkins MP, Dawson KJ, Berger L, Myint F, Hamilton G. The
value of suction wound drain after carotid and femoral artery surgery:
a randomised trial using duplex assessment of the volume of postoperative haematoma. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;29:162-6.
336. Beard JD, Mountney J, Wilkinson JM, Payne A, Dicks J, Mitton D.
Prevention of postoperative wound haematomas and hyperperfusion following carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2001;21:490-3.
337. Bandyk DF, Mills JL, Gahtan V, Esses GE. Intraoperative duplex
scanning of arterial reconstructions: fate of repaired and unrepaired
defects. J Vasc Surg 1994;20:426-32; discussion: 432-3.
338. Ascher E, Markevich N, Kallakuri S, Schutzer RW, Hingorani AP.
Intraoperative carotid artery duplex scanning in a modern series of
650 consecutive primary endarterectomy procedures. J Vasc Surg
2004;39:416-20.
339. Burnett MG, Stein SC, Sonnad SS, Zager EL. Cost-effectiveness of
intraoperative imaging in carotid endarterectomy. Neurosurgery
2005;57:478-85; discussion: 485.
340. Ricotta JJ, O’Brien-Irr MS. Completion angiography, is it really
necessary? Am J Surg 1997;174:181-4.
341. Rockman CB, Halm EA. Intraoperative imaging: does it really
improve perioperative outcomes of carotid endarterectomy? Semin
Vasc Surg 2007;20:236-43.
342. Wallaert JB, Goodney PP, Vignati JJ, Stone DH, Nolan BW,
Bertges DJ, et al. Completion imaging after carotid endarterectomy
in the Vascular Study Group of New England. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:
376-85.e1-3.
343. Ballotta E, Thiene G, Baracchini C, Ermani M, Militello C, Da Giau G,
et al. Surgical vs medical treatment for isolated internal carotid
artery elongation with coiling or kinking in symptomatic patients: a
prospective randomized clinical study. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:838-46;
discussion: 846.
344. Rantner B, Schmidauer C, Knoﬂach M, Fraedrich G. Very urgent
carotid endarterectomy does not increase the procedural risk. Eur J
Vasc Endovasc Surg 2015;49:129-36.
345. Paty PS, Darling RC 3rd, Feustel PJ, Bernardini GL, Mehta M,
Ozsvath KJ, et al. Early carotid endarterectomy after acute stroke.
J Vasc Surg 2004;39:148-54.
346. Ali M, Stephenson J, Naylor AR. Delay prior to expedited carotid
endarterectomy: a prospective audit of practice. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;46:404-10.
347. Baracchini C, Meneghetti G, Ballotta E. Early carotid endarterectomy in acute stroke. Cerebrovasc Dis 2005;19:417-8.
348. Mussa FF, Aaronson N, Lamparello PJ, Maldonado TS, Cayne NS,
Adelman MA, et al. Outcome of carotid endarterectomy for acute
neurological deﬁcit. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2009;43:364-9.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

91S

Volume 75, Number 1S
349. Capoccia L, Sbarigia E, Speziale F, Toni D, Fiorani P. Urgent carotid
endarterectomy to prevent recurrence and improve neurologic
outcome in mild-to-moderate acute neurologic events. J Vasc Surg
2011;53:622-7; discussion: 627-8.
350. Capoccia L, Sbarigia E, Speziale F, Toni D, Biello A, Montelione N,
et al. The need for emergency surgical treatment in carotid-related
stroke in evolution and crescendo transient ischemic attack. J Vasc
Surg 2012;55:1611-7.
351. Karkos CD, Hernandez-Lahoz I, Naylor AR. Urgent carotid surgery in
patients with crescendo transient ischaemic attacks and stroke-inevolution: a systematic review. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;37:
279-88.
352. Hao Q, Chang HM, Wong MC, Wong KS, Chen C. Frequency of
microemboli signal in stroke patients treated with low molecular
weight heparin or aspirin. J Neuroimaging 2010;20:118-21.
353. Wong KS, Chen C, Ng PW, Tsoi TH, Li HL, Fong WC, et al. Low-molecular-weight heparin compared with aspirin for the treatment of
acute ischaemic stroke in Asian patients with large artery occlusive
disease: a randomised study. Lancet Neurol 2007;6:407-13.
354. Dorigo W, Pulli R, Nesi M, Alessi Innocenti A, Pratesi G, Inzitari D,
et al. Urgent carotid endarterectomy in patients with recent/crescendo transient ischaemic attacks or acute stroke. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2011;41:351-7.
355. Naylor AR. Thrombolysis and expedited carotid revascularization.
J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2015;56:159-64.
356. Wang Q, Chen C, Chen XY, Han JH, Soo Y, Leung TW, et al. Lowmolecular-weight heparin and early neurologic deterioration in
acute stroke caused by large artery occlusive disease. Arch Neurol
2012;69:1454-60.
357. Lennard NS, Vijayasekar C, Tiivas C, Chan CWM, Higman DJ,
Imray CHE. Control of emboli in patients with recurrent or crescendo transient ischaemic attacks using preoperative transcranial
Doppler-directed Dextran therapy. Br J Surg 2003;90:166-70.
358. Rockman CB, Jacobowitz GR, Lamparello PJ, Adelman MA, Woo D,
Schanzer A, et al. Immediate reexploration for the perioperative
neurologic event after carotid endarterectomy: is it worthwhile?
J Vasc Surg 2000;32:1062-70.
359. Naggara O, Touze E, Beyssen B, Trinquart L, Chatellier G, Meder JF,
et al. Anatomical and technical factors associated with stroke or
death during carotid angioplasty and stenting: results from the
endarterectomy versus angioplasty in patients with symptomatic
severe carotid stenosis (EVA-3S) trial and systematic review. Stroke
2011;42:380-8.
360. Nejim B, Alshwaily W, Dakour-Aridi H, Locham S, Goodney P,
Malas MB. Age modiﬁes the efﬁcacy and safety of carotid artery
revascularization procedures. J Vasc Surg 2019;69:1490-503.e3.
361. Dakour-Aridi H, Kashyap VS, Wang GJ, Eldrup-Jorgensen J,
Schermerhorn ML, Malas MB. The impact of age on in-hospital
outcomes after transcarotid artery revascularization, transfemoral
carotid artery stenting, and carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg
2020;72:931-42.
362. Huibers A, Halliday A, Bulbulia R, Coppi G, de Borst GJ. Antiplatelet
therapy in carotid artery stenting and carotid endarterectomy in
the Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery Trial-2. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2016;51:336-42.
363. Rizwan M, Faateh M, Aridi HD, Nejim B, Alshwaily W, Malas MB.
Statins reduce mortality and failure to rescue after carotid artery
stenting. J Vasc Surg 2018;69:112-9.
364. Dakour-Aridi H, Gaber MG, Khalid M, Patterson R, Malas MB. Examination of the interaction between method of anesthesia and
shunting with carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2020;71:1964-71.
365. Dakour-Aridi H, Rizwan M, Nejim B, Locham S, Malas MB. Association between the choice of anesthesia and in-hospital outcomes
after carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg 2019;69:1461-70.e4.
366. Malik RK, Vouyouka A, Salloum A, Marin ML, Faries PL. Tips and
techniques in carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg 2009;50:216-20.
367. Hicks CW, Malas MB. Cerebrovascular disease: carotid artery stenting. In: Sidawy AN, Perler BA, editors. Rutherford’s vascular surgery
and endovascular therapy. Philadelphia: Elsevier; 2019.
368. Schneider PA, Kasirajan K. Difﬁcult anatomy: what characteristics
are critical to good outcomes of either CEA or CAS? Semin Vasc
Surg 2007;20:216-25.
369. Hammer FD, Lacroix V, Duprez T, Grandin C, Verhelst R, Peeters A,
et al. Cerebral microembolization after protected carotid artery

stenting in surgical high-risk patients: results of a 2-year prospective
study. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:847-53; discussion: 853.
370. Fairman R, Gray WA, Scicli AP, Wilburn O, Verta P, Atkinson R, et al.
The CAPTURE registry: analysis of strokes resulting from carotid
artery stenting in the post approval setting: timing, location,
severity, and type. Ann Surg 2007;246:551-6; discussion: 556-8.
371. Patel T, Shah S, Ranjan A, Malhotra H, Pancholy S, Coppola J.
Contralateral transradial approach for carotid artery stenting: a
feasibility study. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2010;75:268-75.
372. Folmar J, Sachar R, Mann T. Transradial approach for carotid artery
stenting: a feasibility study. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2007;69:355-61.
373. Ventoruzzo G, Biondi-Zoccai G, Maioli F, Liistro F, Bolognese L,
Bellandi G. A tailored approach to overcoming challenges of a
bovine aortic arch during left internal carotid artery stenting.
J Endovasc Ther 2012;19:329-38.
374. Montorsi P, Galli S, Ravagnani PM, Tresoldi S, Teruzzi G, Caputi L,
et al. Carotid artery stenting with proximal embolic protection via a
transradial or transbrachial approach: pushing the boundaries of
the technique while maintaining safety and efﬁcacy. J Endovasc
Ther 2016;23:549-60.
375. Etxegoien N, Rhyne D, Kedev S, Sachar R, Mann T. The transradial
approach for carotid artery stenting. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv
2012;80:1081-7.
376. Mendiz OA, Sampaolesi AH, Londero HF, Fava CM, Lev GA,
Valdivieso LR. Initial experience with transradial access for carotid
artery stenting. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2011;45:499-503.
377. Wu CJ, Cheng CI, Hung WC, Fang CY, Yang CH, Chen CJ, et al.
Feasibility and safety of transbrachial approach for patients with
severe carotid artery stenosis undergoing stenting. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2006;67:967-71.
378. Ruzsa Z, Nemes B, Pinter L, Berta B, Toth K, Teleki B, et al.
A randomised comparison of transradial and transfemoral
approach for carotid artery stenting: RADCAR (RADial access for
CARotid artery stenting) study. EuroIntervention 2014;10:381-91.
379. Malas MB, Leal J, Kashyap V, Cambria RP, Kwolek CJ, Criado E.
Technical aspects of transcarotid artery revascularization using the
ENROUTE transcarotid neuroprotection and stent system. J Vasc
Surg 2017;65:916-20.
380. Alpaslan A, Wintermark M, Pinter L, Macdonald S, Ruedy R,
Kolvenbach R. Transcarotid artery revascularization with ﬂow
reversal. J Endovasc Ther 2017;24:265-70.
381. Palombo G, Stella N, Faraglia V, Rizzo L, Fantozzi C, Bozzao A, et al.
Cervical access for ﬁlter-protected carotid artery stenting: a useful
tool to reduce cerebral embolisation. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2010;39:252-7.
382. Bonati LH, Jongen LM, Haller S, Flach HZ, Dobson J, Nederkoorn PJ,
et al. New ischaemic brain lesions on MRI after stenting or endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis: a substudy of the International Carotid Stenting Study (ICSS). Lancet Neurol 2010;9:
353-62.
383. Bijuklic K, Wandler A, Hazizi F, Schofer J. The PROFI study (Prevention of Cerebral Embolization by Proximal Balloon Occlusion
Compared to Filter Protection During Carotid Artery Stenting): a
prospective randomized trial. J Am Coll Cardiol 2012;59:1383-9.
384. Stabile E, Sannino A, Schiattarella GG, Gargiulo G, Toscano E,
Brevetti L, et al. Cerebral embolic lesions detected with diffusionweighted magnetic resonance imaging following carotid artery
stenting: a meta-analysis of 8 studies comparing ﬁlter cerebral
protection and proximal balloon occlusion. JACC Cardiovasc Interv
2014;7:1177-83.
385. Dhillon AS, Li S, Lewinger JP, Shavelle DM, Matthews RV, Clavijo LC.
Comparison of devices used in carotid artery stenting: a vascular
quality initiative analysis of commonly used carotid stents and
embolic protection devices. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:1609-10.
386. Malas MB, Dakour-Aridi H, Wang GJ, Kashyap VS, Motaganahalli RL,
Eldrup-Jorgensen J, et al. Transcarotid artery revascularization
versus transfemoral carotid artery stenting in the Society for
Vascular Surgery Vascular Quality Initiative. J Vasc Surg 2018;69:
92-103.
387. Naazie IN, Cui CL, Osaghae I, Murad MH, Schermerhorn M,
Malas MB. A systematic review and meta-analysis of transcarotid
artery revascularization with dynamic ﬂow reversal versus transfemoral carotid artery stenting and carotid endarterectomy. Ann
Vasc Surg 2020;69:426-36.

92S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

388. Schermerhorn ML, Aridi HD, Kashyap VS, Wang GJ, Nolan B,
Cronenwett J, et al. VESS05. In-hospital outcomes of transcarotid
artery revascularization and carotid endarterectomy in the Society
for Vascular Surgery Vascular Quality Initiative. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:
e50-1.
389. Hicks CW, Nejim B, Obeid T, Locham SS, Malas MB. Use of a primary
carotid stenting technique does not affect perioperative outcomes.
J Vasc Surg 2018;67:1736-43.e1.
390. Qazi U, Obeid TE, Enwerem N, Schneider E, White JR, Freischlag JA,
et al. The effect of ballooning following carotid stent deployment
on hemodynamic stability. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:756-60.
391. Obeid T, Arnaoutakis DJ, Arhuidese I, Qazi U, Abularrage CJ, Black J,
et al. Poststent ballooning is associated with increased periprocedural stroke and death rate in carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg
2015;62:616-23.e1.
392. Qazi U, Obeid T, Arhuidese I, Malas M. Carotid artery stent continued
expansion days after deployment, without post stent deployment
angioplasty. Clin Pract 2015;5:767.
393. Ziapour B, Schermerhorn ML, Iafrati MD, Suarez LB,
TourSavadkohi S, Salehi P. A systematic review and meta-analysis of
predilation and postdilation in transfemoral carotid artery stenting.
J Vasc Surg 2020;72:346-55.e1.
394. Timaran CH, Rosero EB, Higuera A, Ilarraza A, Modrall JG, Clagett GP.
Randomized clinical trial of open-cell vs closed-cell stents for carotid stenting and effects of stent design on cerebral embolization.
J Vasc Surg 2011;54:1310-6.e1; discussion: 1316.
395. Kouvelos GN, Patelis N, Antoniou GA, Lazaris A, Matsagkas MI. Metaanalysis of the effect of stent design on 30-day outcome after carotid artery stenting. J Endovasc Ther 2015;22:789-97.
396. Jim J, Rubin BG, Landis GS, Kenwood CT, Siami FS, Sicard GA. Society for Vascular Surgery Vascular Registry evaluation of stent cell
design on carotid artery stenting outcomes. J Vasc Surg 2011;54:71-9.
397. Bosiers M, de Donato G, Deloose K, Verbist J, Peeters P, Castriota F,
et al. Does free cell area inﬂuence the outcome in carotid artery
stenting? Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2007;33:135-41; discussion: 142-3.
398. Wodarg F, Turner EL, Dobson J, Ringleb PA, Mali WP, Fraedrich G,
et al. Inﬂuence of stent design and use of protection devices on
outcome of carotid artery stenting: a pooled analysis of individual
patient data. J Neurointerv Surg 2018;10:1149-54.
399. Texakalidis P, Giannopoulos S, Kokkinidis DG, Lanzino G. Effect of
open- vs closed-cell stent design on periprocedural outcomes and
restenosis after carotid artery stenting: a systematic review and
comprehensive meta-analysis. J Endovasc Ther 2018;25:523-33.
400. Sannino A, Giugliano G, Toscano E, Schiattarella GG, Franzone A,
Tesorio T, et al. Double layered stents for carotid angioplasty: a
meta-analysis of available clinical data. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv
2018;91:751-7.
401. Machnik R, Paluszek P, Tekieli L, Dzierwa K, Maciejewski D,
Trystula M, et al. Mesh-covered (Roadsaver) stent as a new treatment modality for symptomatic or high-risk carotid stenosis. Postepy w kardiologii interwencyjnej 2017;13:130-4.
402. Schofer J, Musialek P, Bijuklic K, Kolvenbach R, Trystula M, Siudak Z,
et al. A prospective, multicenter study of a novel mesh-covered
carotid stent: the CGuard CARENET Trial (Carotid Embolic Protection Using MicroNet). JACC Cardiovasc Interv 2015;8:1229-34.
403. AbuRahma AF, DerDerian T, Hariri N, Adams E, AbuRahma J,
Dean LS, et al. Anatomical and technical predictors of perioperative
clinical outcomes after carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg 2017;66:
423-32.
404. Paraskevas KI, Veith FJ. Transcervical access, reversal of ﬂow and
mesh-covered stents: New options in the armamentarium of carotid artery stenting. World J Cardiol 2017;9:416-21.
405. Harris LM, Pillai L, Ricotta JJ. External carotid endarterectomy with
internal carotid artery transposition ﬂap angioplasty for symptomatic internal carotid artery occlusion. Cardiovasc Surg 1995;3:625-9.
406. Nicolosi A, Klinger D, Bandyk D, Towne J. External carotid endarterectomy in the treatment of symptomatic patients with internal
carotid artery occlusion. Ann Vasc Surg 1988;2:336-9.
407. Connolly JE, Stemmer EA. Endarterectomy of the external carotid
artery. Its importance in the surgical management of extracranial
cerebrovascular occlusive disease. Arch Surg 1973;106:799-802.
408. Machleder HI, Barker WF. External carotid artery shunting during
carotid endarterectomy. Evidence for feasibility. Arch Surg 1974;108:
785-8.

409. Lindberg B. Acute carotid occlusion. Indication for surgery?
J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 1980;21:315-20.
410. Donaldson MC, Drezner AD. Surgery for acute carotid occlusion.
Therapy in search of predictability. Arch Surg 1983;118:1266-8.
411. Lamberth WC. External carotid endarterectomy: indications, operative technique, and results. Surgery 1983;93:57-63.
412. Gertler JP, Cambria RP. The role of external carotid endarterectomy
in the treatment of ipsilateral internal carotid occlusion: collective
review. J Vasc Surg 1987;6:158-67.
413. Sterpetti AV, Schultz RD, Feldhaus RJ. External carotid endarterectomy: indications, technique, and late results. J Vasc Surg 1988;7:
31-9.
414. Fokkema M, Reichmann BL, den Hartog AG, Klijn CJ,
Schermerhorn ML, Moll FL, et al. Selective external endarterectomy
in patients with ipsilateral symptomatic internal carotid artery occlusion. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:145-51.e1.
415. Nicolas K, Hubert L, Leclere FM, Etienne M, Robert M. Stroke from an
external carotid: lesion pattern and mechanisms. Ann Vasc Surg
2016;32:129.e13-5.
416. Dwivedi AJ, Yancey AE, Ross CB, Morris ME. Symptomatic external
carotid artery stenosis. Am Surg 2011;77:E238-9.
417. Arnold M, Perler BA. Cerebrovascular diseases. In: Sidawy AN, editor.
Rutherford’s vascular surgery and endovascular therapy. 9th ed.
Philadelphia: Elsevier; 2018. p. 1194-214.
418. Riles TS, Imparato AM, Jacobowitz GR, Lamparello PJ, Giangola G,
Adelman MA, et al. The cause of perioperative stroke after carotid
endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 1994;19:206-14; discussion: 215-6.
419. Alan N, Nwachuku E, Jovin TJ, Jankowitz BT, Jadhav AP, Ducruet AF.
Management of iatrogenic direct carotid cavernous ﬁstula occurring during endovascular treatment of stroke. World Neurosurg
2017;100:710.e15-20.
420. Wang GJ, Beck AW, DeMartino RR, Goodney PP, Rockman CB,
Fairman RM. Insight into the cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome
following carotid endarterectomy from the national Vascular
Quality Initiative. J Vasc Surg 2017;65:381-9.e2.
421. Badhiwala JH, Nassiri F, Alhazzani W, Selim MH, Farrokhyar F,
Spears J, et al. Endovascular thrombectomy for acute ischemic
stroke: a meta-analysis. JAMA 2015;314:1832-43.
422. Powers WJ, Rabinstein AA, Ackerson T, Adeoye OM, Bambakidis NC,
Becker K, et al. 2018 guidelines for the early management of patients with acute ischemic stroke: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke
Association. Stroke 2018;49:e46-110.
423. McDonald RJ, Cloft HJ, Kallmes DF. Intracranial hemorrhage is
much more common after carotid stenting than after endarterectomy: evidence from the National Inpatient Sample. Stroke 2011;42:
2782-7.
424. Abou-Chebl A, Yadav JS, Reginelli JP, Bajzer C, Bhatt D, Krieger DW.
Intracranial hemorrhage and hyperperfusion syndrome following
carotid artery stenting: risk factors, prevention, and treatment. J Am
Coll Cardiol 2004;43:1596-601.
425. Saw J, Bajzer C, Casserly IP, Exaire E, Haery C, Sachar R, et al. Evaluating the optimal activated clotting time during carotid artery
stenting. Am J Cardiol 2006;97:1657-60.
426. Toorop RJ, Ousrout R, Scheltinga MR, Moll FL, Bleys RL. Carotid
baroreceptors are mainly localized in the medial portions of the
proximal internal carotid artery. Ann Anat 2013;195:248-52.
427. Lanfranchi PA, Somers VK. Arterial baroreﬂex function and cardiovascular variability: interactions and implications. Am J Physiol
Regul Integr Comp Physiol 2002;283:R815-26.
428. Demirel S, Attigah N, Bruijnen H, Hakimi M, Burgmer B, Bockler D.
Perioperative blood pressure alterations after eversion and conventional carotid endarterectomy sustain in the midterm. Langenbecks Arch Surg 2013;398:303-12.
429. Wennberg DE, Lucas FL, Birkmeyer JD, Bredenberg CE, Fisher ES.
Variation in carotid endarterectomy mortality in the Medicare
population: trial hospitals, volume, and patient characteristics.
JAMA 1998;279:1278-81.
430. Chung J, Kim BM, Paik HK, Hyun DK, Park H. Effects of carotid artery
stenosis treatment on blood pressure. J Neurosurg 2012;117:755-60.
431. Cafferata HT, Merchant RF Jr, DePalma RG. Avoidance of postcarotid endarterectomy hypertension. Ann Surg 1982;196:465-72.
432. Greenstein AJ, Chassin MR, Wang J, Rockman CB, Riles TS, Tuhrim S,
et al. Association between minor and major surgical complications

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

93S

Volume 75, Number 1S
after carotid endarterectomy: results of the New York Carotid Artery
Surgery study. J Vasc Surg 2007;46:1138-44; discussion: 1145-6.
433. Nonaka T, Oka S, Miyata K, Mikami T, Koyanagi I, Houkin K, et al.
Prediction of prolonged postprocedural hypotension after carotid
artery stenting. Neurosurgery 2005;57:472-7; discussion: 7.
434. Arhuidese IJ, Rizwan M, Nejim B, Malas M. Outcomes of primary and
secondary carotid artery stenting. Stroke 2017;48:3086-92.
435. Fokkema M, de Borst GJ, Nolan BW, Indes J, Buck DB, Lo RC, et al.
Clinical relevance of cranial nerve injury following carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2014;47:2-7.
436. Forssell C, Kitzing P, Bergqvist D. Cranial nerve injuries after carotid
artery surgery. A prospective study of 663 operations. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 1995;10:445-9.
437. Forssell C, Takolander R, Bergqvist D, Bergentz SE, Gramming P,
Kitzing P. Cranial nerve injuries associated with carotid endarterectomy. A prospective study. Acta Chir Scand 1985;151:595-8.
438. Schauber MD, Fontenelle LJ, Solomon JW, Hanson TL. Cranial/cervical nerve dysfunction after carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg
1997;25:481-7.
439. Hye RJ, Mackey A, Hill MD, Voeks JH, Cohen DJ, Wang K, et al.
Incidence, outcomes, and effect on quality of life of cranial nerve
injury in the Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy versus
Stenting Trial. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:1208-14.
440. Regina G, Angiletta D, Impedovo G, De Robertis G, Fiorella M,
Carratu MR. Dexamethasone minimizes the risk of cranial nerve
injury during CEA. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:99-102; discussion: 103.
441. Hertzer NR, Lees CD. Fatal myocardial infarction following carotid
endarterectomy: three hundred thirty-ﬁve patients followed 6-11
years after operation. Ann Surg 1981;194:212-8.
442. O’Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD, Willet C, Payne D, Cleveland RJ. The
impact of coronary artery disease on carotid endarterectomy. Ann
Surg 1983;198:705-12.
443. Fleisher LA, Beckman JA, Brown KA, Calkins H, Chaikof EL,
Fleischmann KE, et al. ACC/AHA 2007 guidelines on perioperative
cardiovascular evaluation and care for noncardiac surgery: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/
American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines
(Writing Committee to Revise the 2002 Guidelines on Perioperative
Cardiovascular Evaluation for Noncardiac Surgery) developed in
collaboration with the American Society of Echocardiography,
American Society of Nuclear Cardiology, Heart Rhythm Society,
Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society for Vascular Medicine
and Biology, and Society for Vascular Surgery. J Am Coll Cardiol
2007;50:1707-32.
444. Smilowitz NR, Berger JS. Perioperative management to reduce
cardiovascular events. Circulation 2016;133:1125-30.
445. Texakalidis P, Giannopoulos S, Kokkinidis DG, Jabbour P, ReaveyCantwell J, Rangel-Castilla L. Outcome of carotid artery endarterectomy in statin users versus statin-naive patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. World Neurosurg 2018;116:444-450.e1.
446. Marston N, Brenes J, Garcia S, Kuskowski M, Adabag S, Santilli S,
et al. Peak postoperative troponin levels outperform preoperative
cardiac risk indices as predictors of long-term mortality after
vascular surgery Troponins and postoperative outcomes. J Crit Care
2012;27:66-72.
447. Ujueta F, Berger JS, Smilowitz N. Coronary angiography in patients
with perioperative myocardial injury after non-cardiac surgery.
J Invasive Cardiol 2018;30:E90-2.
448. Tamaki T, Morita A. Neck haematoma after carotid endarterectomy:
risks, rescue, and prevention. Br J Neurosurg 2019;33:156-60.
449. Knight BC, Tait WF. Dacron patch infection following carotid endarterectomy: a systematic review of the literature. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2009;37:140-8.
450. Naylor AR, Payne D, London NJ, Thompson MM, Dennis MS,
Sayers RD, et al. Prosthetic patch infection after carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;23:11-6.
451. Rockman CB, Su WT, Domenig C, Lamparello PJ, Adelman MA,
Jacobowitz GR, et al. Postoperative infection associated with polyester patch angioplasty after carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg
2003;38:251-6.
452. Fok KC, Chan YC, Law Y, Cheng SW. Septic carotid endarterectomy
patch as a result of preoperative tooth extraction. Ann Vasc Surg
2018;50:299.e1-4.

453. Lal BK, Beach KW, Roubin GS, Lutsep HL, Moore WS, Malas MB, et al.
Restenosis after carotid artery stenting and endarterectomy: a
secondary analysis of CREST, a randomised controlled trial. Lancet
Neurol 2012;11:755-63.
454. Lattimer CR, Burnand KG. Recurrent carotid stenosis after carotid
endarterectomy. Br J Surg 1997;84:1206-19.
455. Rockman CB, Riles TS, Landis R, Lamparello PJ, Giangola G,
Adelman MA, et al. Redo carotid surgery: an analysis of materials
and conﬁgurations used in carotid reoperations and their inﬂuence
on perioperative stroke and subsequent recurrent stenosis. J Vasc
Surg 1999;29:72-80; discussion: 81.
456. Rockman CB, Svahn JK, Willis DJ, Lamparello PJ, Adelman MA,
Jacobowitz GR, et al. Carotid endarterectomy in patients 55 years of
age and younger. Ann Vasc Surg 2001;15:557-62.
457. Salvian A, Baker JD, Machleder HI, Busuttil RW, Barker WF,
Moore WS. Cause and noninvasive detection of restenosis after carotid endarterectomy. Am J Surg 1983;146:29-34.
458. Reina-Gutierrez T, Serrano-Hernando FJ, Sanchez-Hervas L,
Ponce A, Vega de Ceniga M, Martin A. Recurrent carotid artery
stenosis following endarterectomy: natural history and risk factors.
Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;29:334-41.
459. Callow AD. Recurrent stenosis after carotid endarterectomy. Arch
Surg 1982;117:1082-5.
460. Texakalidis P, Giannopoulos S, Jonnalagadda AK, Kokkinidis DG,
Machinis T, Reavey-Cantwell J, et al. Carotid artery endarterectomy
versus carotid artery stenting for restenosis after carotid artery
endarterectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. World
Neurosurg 2018;115:421-9.e1.
461. Dorigo W, Fargion A, Giacomelli E, Pulli R, Masciello F, Speziali S,
et al. A propensity matched comparison for open and endovascular
treatment of post-carotid endarterectomy restenosis. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2018;55:153-61.
462. Kumar R, Batchelder A, Saratzis A, AbuRahma AF, Ringleb P, Lal BK,
et al. Restenosis after carotid interventions and its relationship with
recurrent ipsilateral stroke: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2017;53:766-75.
463. Di Gioia G, Scordino D, Campanale C, Miglionico M, Creta A,
Proscia C, et al. In-stent restenosis after carotid artery stenting: from
diagnosis to treatment. EMJ 2016;1:118-24.
464. AbuRahma AF, AbuRahma ZT, Scott G, Adams E, Mata A, Beasley M,
et al. The incidence of carotid in-stent stenosis is underestimated
>/¼50% or >/¼80% and its clinical implications. J Vasc Surg
2019;69:1807-14.
465. Arquizan C, Trinquart L, Touboul PJ, Long A, Feasson S, Terriat B,
et al. Restenosis is more frequent after carotid stenting than after
endarterectomy: the EVA-3S study. Stroke 2011;42:1015-20.
466. Lal BK, Hobson RW 2nd, Toﬁghi B, Kapadia I, Cuadra S, Jamil Z.
Duplex ultrasound velocity criteria for the stented carotid artery.
J Vasc Surg 2008;47:63-73.
467. Lal BK, Kaperonis EA, Cuadra S, Kapadia I, Hobson RW 2nd.
Patterns of in-stent restenosis after carotid artery stenting: classiﬁcation and implications for long-term outcome. J Vasc Surg
2007;46:833-40.
468. Pizzolato R, Hirsch JA, Romero JM. Imaging challenges of carotid
artery in-stent restenosis. J Neurointerv Surg 2014;6:32-41.
469. Van Laanen J, Hendriks JM, Van Sambeek MR. Factors inﬂuencing
restenosis after carotid artery stenting. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino)
2008;49:743-7.
470. Naylor AR. Stenting versus endarterectomy: the debate continues.
Lancet Neurol 2008;7:862-4.
471. Eckstein HH, Ringleb P, Allenberg JR, Berger J, Fraedrich G,
Hacke W, et al. Results of the Stent-Protected Angioplasty versus
Carotid Endarterectomy (SPACE) study to treat symptomatic stenoses at 2 years: a multinational, prospective, randomised trial.
Lancet Neurol 2008;7:893-902.
472. Pourier VE, de Borst GJ. Technical options for treatment of in-stent
restenosis after carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg 2016;64:1486-96.
473. Arhuidese IJ, Nejim B, Chavali S, Locham S, Obeid T, Hicks CW, et al.
Endarterectomy versus stenting in patients with prior ipsilateral
carotid artery stenting. J Vasc Surg 2017;65:1418-28.
474. Bhatia R, Hill MD, Shobha N, Menon B, Bal S, Kochar P, et al. Low
rates of acute recanalization with intravenous recombinant tissue
plasminogen activator in ischemic stroke: real-world experience
and a call for action. Stroke 2010;41:2254-8.

94S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

475. Paciaroni M, Inzitari D, Agnelli G, Caso V, Balucani C, Grotta JC, et al.
Intravenous thrombolysis or endovascular therapy for acute
ischemic stroke associated with cervical internal carotid artery occlusion: the ICARO-3 study. J Neurol 2015;262:459-68.
476. Buslovich S, Hines GL. Spontaneous recanalization of chronic internal carotid artery occlusions: report of 3 cases. Vasc Endovascular
Surg 2011;45:93-7.
477. Rubiera M, Ribo M, Delgado-Mederos R, Santamarina E, Delgado P,
Montaner J, et al. Tandem internal carotid artery/middle cerebral
artery occlusion: an independent predictor of poor outcome after
systemic thrombolysis. Stroke 2006;37:2301-5.
478. Meyer FB, Sundt TM Jr, Piepgras DG, Sandok BA, Forbes G. Emergency carotid endarterectomy for patients with acute carotid occlusion and profound neurological deﬁcits. Ann Surg 1986;203:82-9.
479. Jones HJ, Millikan CH. Temporal proﬁle (clinical course) of acute
carotid system cerebral infarction. Stroke 1976;7:64-71.
480. Grillo P, Patterson RH Jr. Occlusion of the carotid artery: prognosis
(natural history) and the possibilities of surgical revascularization.
Stroke 1975;6:17-20.
481. Sakamoto Y, Sato S, Kuronuma Y, Nagatsuka K, Minematsu K,
Toyoda K. Factors associated with proximal carotid axis occlusion in
patients with acute stroke and atrial ﬁbrillation. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis 2014;23:799-804.
482. Thanvi B, Robinson T. Complete occlusion of extracranial internal
carotid artery: clinical features, pathophysiology, diagnosis and
management. Postgrad Med J 2007;83:95-9.
483. Christou I, Felberg RA, Demchuk AM, Burgin WS, Malkoff M,
Grotta JC, et al. Intravenous tissue plasminogen activator and ﬂow
improvement in acute ischemic stroke patients with internal carotid artery occlusion. J Neuroimaging 2002;12:119-23.
484. Blinc A, Francis CW. Transport processes in ﬁbrinolysis and ﬁbrinolytic therapy. Thromb Haemost 1996;76:481-91.
485. Molina CA, Montaner J, Arenillas JF, Ribo M, Rubiera M, AlvarezSabin J. Differential pattern of tissue plasminogen activatorinduced proximal middle cerebral artery recanalization among
stroke subtypes. Stroke 2004;35:486-90.
486. Saqqur M, Uchino K, Demchuk AM, Molina CA, Garami Z, Calleja S,
et al. Site of arterial occlusion identiﬁed by transcranial Doppler
predicts the response to intravenous thrombolysis for stroke. Stroke
2007;38:948-54.
487. Li W, Yin Q, Xu G, Liu X. Treatment strategies for acute ischemic
stroke caused by carotid artery occlusion. Interv Neurol 2016;5:
148-56.
488. Sugg RM, Malkoff MD, Noser EA, Shaltoni HM, Weir R, Cacayorin ED,
et al. Endovascular recanalization of internal carotid artery occlusion in acute ischemic stroke. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2005;26:
2591-4.
489. Cohen JE, Leker RR, Eichel R, Gomori M, Itshayek E. Emergency
endovascular revascularization of tandem occlusions: Internal carotid artery dissection and intracranial large artery embolism. J Clin
Neurosci 2016;28:157-61.
490. Patel RR, Adam R, Maldjian C, Lincoln CM, Yuen A, Arneja A. Cervical
carotid artery dissection: current review of diagnosis and treatment.
Cardiol Rev 2012;20:145-52.
491. Georgiadis D, Arnold M, von Buedingen HC, Valko P, Sarikaya H,
Rousson V, et al. Aspirin vs anticoagulation in carotid artery
dissection: a study of 298 patients. Neurology 2009;72:1810-5.
492. Muller BT, Luther B, Hort W, Neumann-Haefelin T, Aulich A,
Sandmann W. Surgical treatment of 50 carotid dissections: indications and results. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:980-8.
493. Seth R, Obuchowski AM, Zoarski GH. Endovascular repair of traumatic cervical internal carotid artery injuries: a safe and effective
treatment option. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2013;34:1219-26.
494. Shutze W, Gierman J, McQuade K, Pearl G, Smith B. Treatment of
proximal vertebral artery disease. Vascular 2014;22:85-92.
495. Searls DE, Pazdera L, Korbel E, Vysata O, Caplan LR. Symptoms and
signs of posterior circulation ischemia in the new England medical
center posterior circulation registry. Arch Neurol 2012;69:346-51.
496. Wehman JC, Hanel RA, Guidot CA, Guterman LR, Hopkins LN.
Atherosclerotic occlusive extracranial vertebral artery disease: indications for intervention, endovascular techniques, short-term and
long-term results. J Interv Cardiol 2004;17:219-32.
497. Albuquerque FC, Fiorella D, Han P, Spetzler RF, McDougall CG.
A reappraisal of angioplasty and stenting for the treatment of

vertebral origin stenosis. Neurosurgery 2003;53:607-14; discussion:
614-6.
498. Jenkins JS, White CJ, Ramee SR, Collins TJ, Chilakamarri VK,
McKinley KL, et al. Vertebral artery stenting. Catheter Cardiovasc
Interv 2001;54:1-5.
499. Markus HS, van der Worp HB, Rothwell PM. Posterior circulation
ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attack: diagnosis,
investigation, and secondary prevention. Lancet Neurol 2013;12:
989-98.
500. Savitz SI, Caplan LR. Vertebrobasilar disease. N Engl J Med 2005;352:
2618-26.
501. Gulli G, Marquardt L, Rothwell PM, Markus HS. Stroke risk after
posterior circulation stroke/transient ischemic attack and its relationship to site of vertebrobasilar stenosis: pooled data analysis
from prospective studies. Stroke 2013;44:598-604.
502. Stayman AN, Nogueira RG, Gupta R. A systematic review of stenting
and angioplasty of symptomatic extracranial vertebral artery stenosis. Stroke 2011;42:2212-6.
503. Al-Ali F, Barrow T, Duan L, Jefferson A, Louis S, Luke K, et al. Vertebral
artery ostium atherosclerotic plaque as a potential source of posterior circulation ischemic stroke: result from borgess medical
center vertebral artery ostium stenting registry. Stroke 2011;42:
2544-9.
504. Feng H, Xie Y, Mei B, Liu Y, Li B, Yin C, et al. Endovascular vs. medical
therapy in symptomatic vertebral artery stenosis: a meta-analysis.
J Neurol 2017;264:829-38.
505. Caplan LR, Wityk RJ, Glass TA, Tapia J, Pazdera L, Chang HM, et al.
New England Medical Center Posterior Circulation registry. Ann
Neurol 2004;56:389-98.
506. Edwards WH, Edwards WH Jr. Vertebral-carotid transposition.
Semin Vasc Surg 2000;13:70-3.
507. Molnar RG, Naslund TC. Vertebral artery surgery. Surg Clin North Am
1998;78:901-13.
508. Berguer R, Flynn LM, Kline RA, Caplan L. Surgical reconstruction of
the extracranial vertebral artery: management and outcome. J Vasc
Surg 2000;31:9-18.
509. Mukherjee D, Pineda G. Extracranial vertebral artery intervention.
J Interv Cardiol 2007;20:409-16.
510. Coward LJ, McCabe DJ, Ederle J, Featherstone RL, Clifton A,
Brown MM. Long-term outcome after angioplasty and stenting for
symptomatic vertebral artery stenosis compared with medical
treatment in the Carotid And Vertebral Artery Transluminal Angioplasty Study (CAVATAS): a randomized trial. Stroke 2007;38:1526-30.
511. Jenkins JS. Percutaneous treatment of vertebral artery stenosis.
Interv Cardiol Clin 2014;3:115-22.
512. Thomas CS, Habib F, Varghese K, Abraham MT, Hayat NJ, Cherian G.
Disease of proximal part of vertebral artery in patients with coronary
artery disease. Angiology 2003;54:205-9.
513. Espinosa de Rueda M, Parrilla G, Zamarro J, Garcia-Villalba B,
Hernandez F, Moreno A. Treatment of acute vertebrobasilar
occlusion using thrombectomy with stent retrievers: initial
experience with 18 patients. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2013;34:
1044-8.
514. van de Weijer MA, Vonken EJ, de Vries JP, Moll FL, Vos JA, de
Borst GJ. Technical and clinical success and long-term durability of
endovascular treatment for atherosclerotic aortic arch branch
origin obstruction: evaluation of 144 procedures. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2015;50:13-20.
515. Klonaris C, Kouvelos GN, Kafeza M, Koutsoumpelis A, Katsargyris A,
Tsigris C. Common carotid artery occlusion treatment: revealing a
gap in the current guidelines. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;46:
291-8.
516. Cherry KJ Jr, McCullough JL, Hallett JW Jr, Pairolero PC, Gloviczki P.
Technical principles of direct innominate artery revascularization: a
comparison of endarterectomy and bypass grafts. J Vasc Surg
1989;9:718-23; discussion: 723-4.
517. Cherry KJ. Direct reconstruction of the innominate artery. Cardiovasc Surg 2002;10:383-8.
518. Takach TJ, Reul GJ, Cooley DA, Duncan JM, Livesay JJ, Gregoric ID,
et al. Brachiocephalic reconstruction I: operative and long-term
results for complex disease. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:47-54.
519. Fry WR, Martin JD, Clagett GP, Fry WJ. Extrathoracic carotid reconstruction: the subclavian-carotid artery bypass. J Vasc Surg 1992;15:
83-8; discussion: 88-9.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

95S

Volume 75, Number 1S
520. Berguer R, Morasch MD, Kline RA, Kazmers A, Friedland MS. Cervical
reconstruction of the supra-aortic trunks: a 16-year experience.
J Vasc Surg 1999;29:239-46; discussion: 246-8.
521. Barilla D, Massara M, Alberti A, Volpe A, Cutrupi A, Versace P, et al.
Old and new techniques as a safe hybrid approach for carotid
tandem lesions. Ann Vasc Surg 2016;32:132.e9-12.
522. de Borst GJ, Hazenberg CE. How should I treat a patient with a
tandem carotid artery atherosclerotic stenosis involving the internal
carotid artery and the innominate/proximal common carotid artery? Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2015;50:257-8.
523. Illuminati G, Pizzardi G, Pasqua R, Frezzotti F, Palumbo P,
Macrina F, et al. Hybrid treatment of tandem, common carotid/
innominate artery and ipsilateral carotid bifurcation stenoses by
simultaneous, retrograde proximal stenting and eversion carotid
endarterectomy: preliminary results of a case series. Int J Surg
2018;52:329-33.
524. Naylor AR, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM, Bell PR. Carotid artery disease
and stroke during coronary artery bypass: a critical review of the
literature. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;23:283-94.
525. Naylor AR, Bown MJ. Stroke after cardiac surgery and its association
with asymptomatic carotid disease: an updated systematic review
and meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2011;41:607-24.
526. D’Agostino RS, Svensson LG, Neumann DJ, Balkhy HH,
Williamson WA, Shahian DM. Screening carotid ultrasonography
and risk factors for stroke in coronary artery surgery patients. Ann
Thorac Surg 1996;62:1714-23.
527. Naylor AR, Cuffe RL, Rothwell PM, Bell PR. A systematic review of
outcomes following staged and synchronous carotid endarterectomy and coronary artery bypass. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2003;25:
380-9.
528. Bucerius J, Gummert JF, Borger MA, Walther T, Doll N, Onnasch JF,
et al. Stroke after cardiac surgery: a risk factor analysis of 16,184
consecutive adult patients. Ann Thorac Surg 2003;75:472-8.
529. Newman MF, Wolman R, Kanchuger M, Marschall K, MoraMangano C, Roach G, et al. Multicenter preoperative stroke risk index for patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery.
Multicenter Study of Perioperative Ischemia (McSPI) Research
Group. Circulation 1996;94(9 Suppl):Ii74-80.
530. Naylor AR. Managing patients with symptomatic coronary and carotid artery disease. Perspect Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther 2010;22:70-6.
531. Eagle KA, Guyton RA, Davidoff R, Edwards FH, Ewy GA, Gardner TJ,
et al. ACC/AHA 2004 guideline update for coronary artery bypass
graft surgery: summary article: a report of the American College of
Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice
Guidelines (Committee to Update the 1999 Guidelines for Coronary
Artery Bypass Graft Surgery). Circulation 2004;110:1168-76.
532. Li Y, Walicki D, Mathiesen C, Jenny D, Li Q, Isayev Y, et al. Strokes
after cardiac surgery and relationship to carotid stenosis. Arch
Neurol 2009;66:1091-6.
533. Paraskevas KI, Nduwayo S, Saratzis AN, Naylor AR. Carotid stenting
prior to coronary bypass surgery: an updated systematic review and
meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2017;53:309-19.
534. Bertrand OF, Ruzsa Z, Barria Perez A, De Larochelliere R. Same-day
discharge after transradial percutaneous coronary intervention and
carotid stenting in a single session. Can J Cardiol 2017;33:830.e1-3.
535. Hertzer NR, Loop FD, Beven EG, O’Hara PJ, Krajewski LP. Surgical
staging for simultaneous coronary and carotid disease: a study
including prospective randomization. J Vasc Surg 1989;9:455-63.
536. Ricotta JJ, Char DJ, Cuadra SA, Bilﬁnger TV, Wall LP, Giron F, et al.
Modeling stroke risk after coronary artery bypass and combined coronary artery bypass and carotid endarterectomy. Stroke 2003;34:1212-7.
537. Klarin D, Patel VI, Zhang S, Xian Y, Kosinski A, Yerokun B, et al.
Concomitant carotid endarterectomy and cardiac surgery does not
decrease postoperative stroke rates. J Vasc Surg 2020;72:589-96.e3.
538. Tzoumas A, Giannopoulos S, Texakalidis P, Charisis N, Machinis T,
Koullias GJ. Synchronous versus staged carotid endarterectomy
and coronary artery bypass graft for patients with concomitant severe coronary and carotid artery stenosis: a systematic review and
meta-analysis. Ann Vasc Surg 2020;63:427-38.e1.
539. Berens ES, Kouchoukos NT, Murphy SF, Wareing TH. Preoperative
carotid artery screening in elderly patients undergoing cardiac
surgery. J Vasc Surg 1992;15:313-21; discussion: 322-3.

540. Lin JC, Kabbani LS, Peterson EL, Masabni K, Morgan JA, Brooks S,
et al. Clinical utility of carotid duplex ultrasound prior to cardiac
surgery. J Vasc Surg 2016;63:710-4.
541. Aboyans V, Lacroix P. Indications for carotid screening in patients
with coronary artery disease. Presse Med 2009;38:977-86.
542. Bates ER, Babb JD, Casey DE Jr. Cates CU, Duckwiler GR, Feldman
TE, et al. ACCF/SCAI/SVMB/SIR/ASITN 2007 Clinical Expert
Consensus Document on carotid stenting. Vasc Med 2007;12:35-83.
543. Timaran CH, Rosero EB, Smith ST, Valentine RJ, Modrall JG,
Clagett GP. Trends and outcomes of concurrent carotid revascularization and coronary bypass. J Vasc Surg 2008;48:355-60; discussion: 360-1.
544. Van der Heyden J, Suttorp MJ, Bal ET, Ernst JM, Ackerstaff RG,
Schaap J, et al. Staged carotid angioplasty and stenting followed
by cardiac surgery in patients with severe asymptomatic carotid
artery stenosis: early and long-term results. Circulation 2007;116:
2036-42.
545. Naylor AR, Mehta Z, Rothwell PM. A systematic review and metaanalysis of 30-day outcomes following staged carotid artery stenting and coronary bypass. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;37:379-87.
546. Shishehbor MH, Venkatachalam S, Sun Z, Rajeswaran J, Kapadia SR,
Bajzer C, et al. A direct comparison of early and late outcomes with
three approaches to carotid revascularization and open heart surgery. J Am Coll Cardiol 2013;62:1948-56.
547. Larsen SF, Zaric D, Boysen G. Postoperative cerebrovascular accidents in general surgery. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand 1988;32:698-701.
548. Popa AS, Rabinstein AA, Huddleston PM, Larson DR, Gullerud RE,
Huddleston JM. Predictors of ischemic stroke after hip operation: a
population-based study. J Hosp Med 2009;4:298-303.
549. Mashour GA, Shanks AM, Kheterpal S. Perioperative stroke and
associated mortality after noncardiac, nonneurologic surgery.
Anesthesiology 2011;114:1289-96.
550. Devereaux PJ, Yang H, Yusuf S, Guyatt G, Leslie K, Villar JC, et al.
Effects of extended-release metoprolol succinate in patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery (POISE trial): a randomised controlled
trial. Lancet 2008;371:1839-47.
551. Macellari F, Paciaroni M, Agnelli G, Caso V. Perioperative stroke risk
in nonvascular surgery. Cerebrovasc Dis 2012;34:175-81.
552. Selim M. Perioperative stroke. N Engl J Med 2007;356:706-13.
553. Kristensen SD, Knuuti J, Saraste A, Anker S, Botker HE, De Hert S,
et al. 2014 ESC/ESA Guidelines on non-cardiac surgery: cardiovascular assessment and management: The Joint Task Force on noncardiac surgery: cardiovascular assessment and management of
the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and the European Society
of Anaesthesiology (ESA). Eur J Anaesthesiol 2014;31:517-73.
554. Tendera M, Aboyans V, Bartelink ML, Baumgartner I, Clement D,
Collet JP, et al. ESC Guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of
peripheral artery diseases: document covering atherosclerotic disease of extracranial carotid and vertebral, mesenteric, renal, upper
and lower extremity arteries: the Task Force on the Diagnosis and
Treatment of Peripheral Artery Diseases of the European Society of
Cardiology (ESC). Eur Heart J 2011;32:2851-906.
555. Ahmed B, Al-Khaffaf H. Prevalence of signiﬁcant asymptomatic
carotid artery disease in patients with peripheral vascular disease: a
meta-analysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2009;37:262-71.
556. Hofmann R, Kypta A, Steinwender C, Kerschner K, Grund M,
Leisch F. Coronary angiography in patients undergoing carotid artery stenting shows a high incidence of signiﬁcant coronary artery
disease. Heart 2005;91:1438-41.
557. Jorgensen ME, Torp-Pedersen C, Gislason GH, Jensen PF, Berger SM,
Christiansen CB, et al. Time elapsed after ischemic stroke and risk of
adverse cardiovascular events and mortality following elective
noncardiac surgery. JAMA 2014;312:269-77.
558. Mrkobrada M, Chan MTV, Cowan D, Spence J, Campbell D,
Wang CY, et al. Rationale and design for the detection and neurological impact of cerebrovascular events in non-cardiac surgery
patients cohort evaluation (NeuroVISION) study: a prospective international cohort study. BMJ Open 2018;8:e021521.
559. Hannan EL, Popp AJ, Feustel P, Halm E, Bernardini G, Waldman J,
et al. Association of surgical specialty and processes of care with
patient outcomes for carotid endarterectomy. Stroke 2001;32:
2890-7.

96S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

560. Kucey DS, Bowyer B, Iron K, Austin P, Anderson G, Tu JV. Determinants of outcome after carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg
1998;28:1051-8.
561. Nazarian SM, Yenokyan G, Thompson RE, Griswold ME, Chang DC,
Perler BA. Statistical modeling of the volume-outcome effect for
carotid endarterectomy for 10 years of a statewide database. J Vasc
Surg 2008;48:343-50; discussion: 350.
562. Takagi H, Kawai N, Umemoto T. Regarding "provider volume and
outcomes for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, carotid endarterectomy, and lower extremity revascularization procedures.". J Vasc
Surg 2008;47:1123-4. author reply 1124.
563. Karthikesalingam A, Hinchliffe RJ, Loftus IM, Thompson MM, Holt PJ.
Volume-outcome relationships in vascular surgery: the current
status. J Endovasc Ther 2010;17:356-65.
564. Cebul RD, Snow RJ, Pine R, Hertzer NR, Norris DG. Indications,
outcomes, and provider volumes for carotid endarterectomy. JAMA
1998;279:1282-7.
565. Perler BA, Dardik A, Burleyson GP, Gordon TA, Williams GM. Inﬂuence of age and hospital volume on the results of carotid endarterectomy: a statewide analysis of 9918 cases. J Vasc Surg 1998;27:
25-31; discussion: 33.
566. Killeen SD, Andrews EJ, Redmond HP, Fulton GJ. Provider volume
and outcomes for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, carotid endarterectomy, and lower extremity revascularization procedures.
J Vasc Surg 2007;45:615-26.
567. O’Neill L, Lanska DJ, Hartz A. Surgeon characteristics associated
with mortality and morbidity following carotid endarterectomy.
Neurology 2000;55:773-81.
568. Holt PJ, Poloniecki JD, Loftus IM, Thompson MM. Meta-analysis and
systematic review of the relationship between hospital volume and
outcome following carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2007;33:645-51.
569. Holt PJ, Poloniecki JD, Loftus IM, Thompson MM. The relationship
between hospital case volume and outcome from carotid endartectomy in England from 2000 to 2005. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2007;34:646-54.
570. Enomoto LM, Hill DC, Dillon PW, Han DC, Hollenbeak CS. Surgical
specialty and outcomes for carotid endarterectomy: evidence from
the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program. J Surg Res
2014;188:339-48.
571. Lieber BA, Henry JK, Agarwal N, Day JD, Morris TW 3rd, Stephens ML,
et al. Impact of surgical specialty on outcomes following carotid
endarterectomy. Neurosurgery 2017;80:217-25.
572. AbuRahma AF, Stone PA, Srivastava M, Hass SM, Mousa AY, Dean LS,
et al. The effect of surgeon’s specialty and volume on the perioperative outcome of carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2013;58:
666-72.
573. Meltzer AJ, Agrusa C, Connolly PH, Schneider DB, Sedrakyan A.
Impact of Provider characteristics on outcomes of carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis in New York state.
Ann Vasc Surg 2017;45:56-61.
574. Kuehnl A, Tsantilas P, Knappich C, Schmid S, Konig T, Breitkreuz T,
et al. Signiﬁcant association of annual hospital volume with the risk
of inhospital stroke or death following carotid endarterectomy but
likely not after carotid stenting: secondary data analysis of the
Statutory German Carotid Quality Assurance Database. Circ Cardiovasc Interv 2016;9:e004171.
575. Hussain MA, Mamdani M, Tu JV, Saposnik G, Salata K, Bhatt DL, et al.
Association between operator specialty and outcomes after carotid
artery revascularization. J Vasc Surg 2018;67:478-89.e6.
576. Calvet D, Mas JL, Algra A, Becquemin JP, Bonati LH, Dobson J, et al.
Carotid stenting: is there an operator effect? A pooled analysis from
the carotid stenting trialists’ collaboration. Stroke 2014;45:527-32.
577. Gray WA, Rosenﬁeld KA, Jaff MR, Chaturvedi S, Peng L, Verta P. Inﬂuence of site and operator characteristics on carotid artery stent
outcomes: analysis of the CAPTURE 2 (Carotid ACCULINK/ACCUNET
Post Approval Trial to Uncover Rare Events) clinical study. JACC
Cardiovasc Interv 2011;4:235-46.
578. Hopkins LN, White CJ, Foster MT, Powell RJ, Zemel G, Diaz-Cartelle J.
Carotid artery stenting and patient outcomes: the CABANA surveillance study. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2014;84:997-1004.
579. Modrall JG, Chung J, Kirkwood ML, Baig MS, Tsai SX, Timaran CH,
et al. Low rates of complications for carotid artery stenting are
associated with a high clinician volume of carotid artery stenting

and aortic endografting but not with a high volume of percutaneous coronary interventions. J Vasc Surg 2014;60:70-6.
580. Shishehbor MH, Venkatachalam S, Gray WA, Metzger C, Lal BK,
Peng L, et al. Experience and outcomes with carotid artery stenting:
an analysis of the CHOICE study (Carotid Stenting for High SurgicalRisk Patients; Evaluating Outcomes Through the Collection of
Clinical Evidence). JACC Cardiovasc Interv 2014;7:1307-17.
581. Badheka AO, Chothani A, Panaich SS, Mehta K, Patel NJ,
Deshmukh A, et al. Impact of symptoms, gender, co-morbidities,
and operator volume on outcome of carotid artery stenting (from
the Nationwide Inpatient Sample [2006 to 2010]). Am J Cardiol
2014;114:933-41.
582. Vogel TR, Dombrovskiy VY, Graham AM. Carotid artery stenting in
the nation: the inﬂuence of hospital and physician volume on
outcomes. Vasc Endovascular Surg 2010;44:89-94.
583. Steppacher R, Csikesz N, Eslami M, Arous E, Messina L, Schanzer A.
An analysis of carotid artery stenting procedures performed in New
York and Florida (2005-2006): procedure indication, stroke rate, and
mortality rate are equivalent for vascular surgeons and non-vascular
surgeons. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:1379-85; discussion: 1385-6.
584. Smout J, Macdonald S, Weir G, Stansby G. Carotid artery stenting:
relationship between experience and complication rate. Int J
Stroke 2010;5:477-82.
585. Setacci C, Chisci E, Setacci F, Iacoponi F, de Donato G, Rossi A. Siena
carotid artery stenting score: a risk modelling study for individual
patients. Stroke 2010;41:1259-65.
586. Aronow HD, Collins TJ, Gray WA, Jaff MR, Kluck BW, Patel RA, et al.
SCAI/SVM expert consensus statement on carotid stenting: Training
and credentialing for carotid stenting. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv
2016;87:188-99.
587. Vogel TR, Dombrovskiy VY, Haser PB, Graham AM. Carotid artery
stenting: impact of practitioner specialty and volume on outcomes
and resource utilization. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:1166-71.
588. Sgroi MD, Darby GC, Kabutey NK, Barleben AR, Lane JS 3rd,
Fujitani RM. Experience matters more than specialty for carotid
stenting outcomes. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:933-8.
589. AbuRahma AF, Campbell JE, Hariri N, AbuRahma J, Dean LS,
Bates MC, et al. Clinical outcome of carotid artery stenting according to provider specialty and volume. Ann Vasc Surg 2017;44:
361-7.
590. Avgerinos EDGC, Ling J, Naddaf A, Steinmetz AL, Makaroun MS,
Chaer RA. Carotid artery disease progression and related neurologic
events following carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:2.
591. Iafrati MD, Salamipour H, Young C, Mackey WC, O’Donnell TF Jr.
Who needs surveillance of the contralateral carotid artery? Am J
Surg 1996;172:136-9.
592. Patel ST, Kuntz KM, Kent KC. Is routine duplex ultrasound surveillance after carotid endarterectomy cost-effective? Surgery 1998;124:
343-51; discussion: 351-2.
593. Raman KG, Layne S, Makaroun MS, Kelley ME, Rhee RY, Tzeng E,
et al. Disease progression in contralateral carotid artery is common
after endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2004;39:52-7.
594. Al Shakarchi J, Lowry D, Nath J, Khawaja AZ, Inston N, Tiwari A.
Duplex ultrasound surveillance after carotid artery endarterectomy.
J Vasc Surg 2016;63:1647-50.
595. Chaturvedi S. Is surveillance for restenosis justiﬁed after carotid
revascularisation? Lancet Neurol 2018;17:570-1.
596. AbuRahma AF, Srivastava M, AbuRahma Z, Jackson W, Mousa A,
Stone PA, et al. The value and economic analysis of routine postoperative carotid duplex ultrasound surveillance after carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:378-83.
597. Zierler RE, Jordan WD, Lal BK, Mussa F, Leers S, Fulton J, et al. The
Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines on follow-up after
vascular surgery arterial procedures. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:256-84.
598. Bonati LH, Gregson J, Dobson J, McCabe DJH, Nederkoorn PJ, van
der Worp HB, et al. Restenosis and risk of stroke after stenting or
endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid stenosis in the International Carotid Stenting Study (ICSS): secondary analysis of a randomised trial. Lancet Neurol 2018;17:587-96.
599. Fokkema M, Vrijenhoek JE, Den Ruijter HM, Groenwold RH,
Schermerhorn ML, Bots ML, et al. Stenting versus endarterectomy
for restenosis following prior ipsilateral carotid endarterectomy:
an individual patient data meta-analysis. Ann Surg 2015;261:
598-604.

Journal of Vascular Surgery

AbuRahma et al

97S

Volume 75, Number 1S
600. Naylor AR, Saratzis A. The fate of severe restenosis after carotid interventions. Lancet Neurol 2018;17:842-3.
601. AbuRahma AF, Cook CC, Metz MJ, Wulu JT Jr, Bartolucci A. Natural
history of carotid artery stenosis contralateral to endarterectomy:
results from two randomized prospective trials. J Vasc Surg 2003;38:
1154-61.
602. Ballotta E, Da Giau G, Meneghetti G, Barbon B, Militello C,
Baracchini C. Progression of atherosclerosis in asymptomatic carotid arteries after contralateral endarterectomy: a 10-year prospective study. J Vasc Surg 2007;45:516-22.
603. Fluri F, Engelter ST, Wasner M, Stierli P, Merlo A, Lyrer PA. The
probability of restenosis, contralateral disease progression, and late
neurologic events following carotid endarterectomy: a long-term
follow-up study. Cerebrovasc Dis 2008;26:654-8.
604. Kallmayer M, Tsantilas P, Zieger C, Ahmed A, Sollner H,
Zimmermann A, et al. Ultrasound surveillance after CAS and CEA:
what’s the evidence? J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino) 2014;55(2 Suppl 1):
33-41.
605. Diaz-Duran C, Clara A, Roig L, Ruiz-Carmona C, Mellado Joan M,
Elosua R. Disease progression in the contralateral carotid artery is
still common after endarterectomy. Ann Vasc Surg 2018;50:225-30.
606. Kakkos SK, Nicolaides AN, Charalambous I, Thomas D,
Giannopoulos A, Naylor AR, et al. Predictors and clinical signiﬁcance
of progression or regression of asymptomatic carotid stenosis.
J Vasc Surg 2014;59:956-67.e1.
607. Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, Bravata DM, Chimowitz MI,
Ezekowitz MD, et al. Guidelines for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for
healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/
American Stroke Association. Stroke 2014;45:2160-236.
608. Zapata-Arriaza E, Moniche F, Gonzalez A, Bustamante A, EscuderoMartinez I, De la Torre Laviana FJ, et al. Predictors of restenosis
following carotid angioplasty and stenting. Stroke 2016;47:2144-7.
609. Halsey JH, McDowell HA, Gelmon S, Morawetz RB. Blood velocity in
the middle cerebral artery and regional cerebral blood ﬂow during
carotid endarterectomy. Stroke 1989;20:53-8.
610. Abbott A. Dementia: a problem for our age. Nature 2011;475:S2-4.
611. Wimo A, Jonsson L, Bond J, Prince M, Winblad B. Alzheimer disease
I. The worldwide economic impact of dementia 2010. Alzheimers
Dement 2013;9:1-11.e3.
612. Snowdon DA, Greiner LH, Mortimer JA, Riley KP, Greiner PA,
Markesbery WR. Brain infarction and the clinical expression of Alzheimer disease. The Nun Study. JAMA 1997;277:813-7.
613. Dempsey RJ, Vemuganti R, Varghese T, Hermann BP. A review of
carotid atherosclerosis and vascular cognitive decline: a new understanding of the keys to symptomology. Neurosurgery 2010;67:
484-93; discussion: 493-4.
614. Mathiesen EB, Waterloo K, Joakimsen O, Bakke SJ, Jacobsen EA,
Bonaa KH. Reduced neuropsychological test performance in
asymptomatic carotid stenosis: the Tromso Study. Neurology
2004;62:695-701.
615. Johnston SC, O’Meara ES, Manolio TA, Lefkowitz D, O’Leary DH,
Goldstein S, et al. Cognitive impairment and decline are associated
with carotid artery disease in patients without clinically evident
cerebrovascular disease. Ann Intern Med 2004;140:237-47.
616. Poels MM, Ikram MA, Vernooij MW, Krestin GP, Hofman A,
Niessen WJ, et al. Total cerebral blood ﬂow in relation to cognitive
function: the Rotterdam Scan Study. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab
2008;28:1652-5.
617. Zhu L, Fratiglioni L, Guo Z, Aguero-Torres H, Winblad B, Viitanen M.
Association of stroke with dementia, cognitive impairment, and
functional disability in the very old: a population-based study.
Stroke 1998;29:2094-9.
618. Sun JH, Tan L, Yu JT. Post-stroke cognitive impairment: epidemiology, mechanisms and management. Ann Transl Med 2014;2:80.
619. Romero JR, Beiser A, Seshadri S, Benjamin EJ, Polak JF, Vasan RS,
et al. Carotid artery atherosclerosis, MRI indices of brain ischemia,
aging, and cognitive impairment: the Framingham study. Stroke
2009;40:1590-6.
620. Rabbitt P, Scott M, Thacker N, Lowe C, Jackson A, Horan M, et al.
Losses in gross brain volume and cerebral blood ﬂow account for
age-related differences in speed but not in ﬂuid intelligence.
Neuropsychology 2006;20:549-57.

621. Binnewijzend MA, Benedictus MR, Kuijer JP, van der Flier WM,
Teunissen CE, Prins ND, et al. Cerebral perfusion in the predementia
stages of Alzheimer’s disease. Eur Radiol 2016;26:506-14.
622. Alosco ML, Gunstad J, Jerskey BA, Xu X, Clark US, Hassenstab J, et al.
The adverse effects of reduced cerebral perfusion on cognition and
brain structure in older adults with cardiovascular disease. Brain
Behav 2013;3:626-36.
623. Markus HS, King A, Shipley M, Topakian R, Cullinane M, Reihill S,
et al. Asymptomatic embolisation for prediction of stroke in the
Asymptomatic Carotid Emboli Study (ACES): a prospective observational study. Lancet Neurol 2010;9:663-71.
624. Liberman AL, Zandieh A, Loomis C, Raser-Schramm JM, Wilson CA,
Torres J, et al. Symptomatic carotid occlusion is frequently associated with microembolization. Stroke 2017;48:394-9.
625. Purandare N, Burns A, Morris J, Perry EP, Wren J, McCollum C. Association of cerebral emboli with accelerated cognitive deterioration in Alzheimer’s disease and vascular dementia. Am J Psychiatry
2012;169:300-8.
626. Purandare N, Voshaar RC, Morris J, Byrne JE, Wren J, Heller RF, et al.
Asymptomatic spontaneous cerebral emboli predict cognitive and
functional decline in dementia. Biol Psychiatry 2007;62:339-44.
627. Vermeer SE, Prins ND, den Heijer T, Hofman A, Koudstaal PJ,
Breteler MM. Silent brain infarcts and the risk of dementia and
cognitive decline. N Engl J Med 2003;348:1215-22.
628. Lal BK, Dux MC, Sikdar S, Goldstein C, Khan AA, Yokemick J, et al.
Asymptomatic carotid stenosis is associated with cognitive
impairment. J Vasc Surg 2017;66:1083-92.
629. De Rango P, Caso V, Leys D, Paciaroni M, Lenti M, Cao P. The role of
carotid artery stenting and carotid endarterectomy in cognitive
performance: a systematic review. Stroke 2008;39:3116-27.
630. Qu L, Feng J, Zou S, Bai J, Hu Z, Guo M, et al. Improved visual,
acoustic, and neurocognitive functions after carotid endarterectomy in patients with minor stroke from severe carotid stenosis.
J Vasc Surg 2015;62:635-44.e2.
631. Carta MG, Lecca ME, Saba L, Sanﬁlippo R, Pintus E, Cadoni M, et al.
Patients with carotid atherosclerosis who underwent or did not
undergo carotid endarterectomy: outcome on mood, cognition
and quality of life. BMC Psychiatry 2015;15:277.
632. Watanabe J, Ogata T, Higashi T, Inoue T. Cognitive change 1 year
after CEA or CAS compared with medication. J Stroke Cerebrovasc
Dis 2017;26:1297-305.
633. Czerny M, Schuch P, Sodeck G, Balassy C, Hoelzenbein T, Juraszek A,
et al. Sustained cognitive beneﬁt 5 years after carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2010;51:1139-44.
634. Johnson R Jr. On the neural generators of the P300 component of
the event-related potential. Psychophysiology 1993;30:90-7.
635. Medvidovic S, Titlic M, Maras-Simunic M. P300 evoked potential in
patients with mild cognitive impairment. Acta Inform Med 2013;21:
89-92.
636. Fierstra J, Maclean DB, Fisher JA, Han JS, Mandell DM, Conklin J,
et al. Surgical revascularization reverses cerebral cortical thinning in
patients with severe cerebrovascular steno-occlusive disease. Stroke
2011;42:1631-7.
637. Reinhard M, Muller T, Guschlbauer B, Timmer J, Hetzel A. Dynamic
cerebral autoregulation and collateral ﬂow patterns in patients with
severe carotid stenosis or occlusion. Ultrasound Med Biol 2003;29:
1105-13.
638. Tedesco MM, Dalman RL, Zhou W, Coogan SM, Lane B, Lee JT.
Reduction of postprocedure microemboli following retrospective
quality assessment and practice improvement measures for carotid
angioplasty and stenting. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:607-12; discussion:
612-3.
639. Hitchner E, Baughman BD, Soman S, Long B, Rosen A, Zhou W.
Microembolization is associated with transient cognitive decline in
patients undergoing carotid interventions. J Vasc Surg 2016;64:
1719-25.
640. Montorsi P, Caputi L, Galli S, Ciceri E, Ballerini G, Agrifoglio M, et al.
Microembolization during carotid artery stenting in patients with
high-risk, lipid-rich plaque. A randomized trial of proximal versus
distal cerebral protection. J Am Coll Cardiol 2011;58:1656-63.
641. Schnaudigel S, Groschel K, Pilgram SM, Kastrup A. New brain lesions
after carotid stenting versus carotid endarterectomy: a systematic
review of the literature. Stroke 2008;39:1911-9.

98S

AbuRahma et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

642. Bossema ER, Brand N, Moll FL, Ackerstaff RG, van Doornen LJ.
Perioperative microembolism is not associated with cognitive
outcome three months after carotid endarterectomy. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2005;29:262-8.
643. Ghogawala Z, Westerveld M, Amin-Hanjani S. Cognitive outcomes
after carotid revascularization: the role of cerebral emboli and
hypoperfusion. Neurosurgery 2008;62:385-95; discussion: 393-5.
644. Zhou W, Hitchner E, Gillis K, Sun L, Floyd R, Lane B, et al. Prospective
neurocognitive evaluation of patients undergoing carotid interventions. J Vasc Surg 2012;56:1571-8.
645. Laza C, Popescu BO, Popa M, Roceanu AM, Tiu C, Antochi FA, et al.
Microemboli detection in patients with carotid artery stenting–a
potential marker for future cognitive impairment? J Neurol Sci
2013;326:96-9.
646. Zhou W, Baughman BD, Soman S, Wintermark M, Lazzeroni LC,
Hitchner E, et al. Volume of subclinical embolic infarct correlates to
long-term cognitive changes after carotid revascularization. J Vasc
Surg 2017;65:686-94.
647. Rapp JH, Pan XM, Sharp FR, Shah DM, Wille GA, Velez PM, et al.
Atheroemboli to the brain: size threshold for causing acute
neuronal cell death. J Vasc Surg 2000;32:68-76.
648. Soman S, Prasad G, Hitchner E, Massaband P, Moseley ME, Zhou W,
et al. Brain structural connectivity distinguishes patients at risk for
cognitive decline after carotid interventions. Hum Brain Mapp
2016;37:2185-94.
649. Zuniga MC, Tran TB, Baughman BD, Raghuraman G, Hitchner E,
Rosen A, et al. A Prospective evaluation of systemic biomarkers and
cognitive function associated with carotid revascularization. Ann
Surg 2016;264:659-65.
650. Hillman CH, Erickson KI, Kramer AF. Be smart, exercise your heart:
exercise effects on brain and cognition. Nat Rev Neurosci 2008;9:
58-65.
651. Vaynman S, Ying Z, Gomez-Pinilla F. Hippocampal BDNF mediates
the efﬁcacy of exercise on synaptic plasticity and cognition. Eur J
Neurosci 2004;20:2580-90.
652. Kaiser Family Foundation. Payments for cost sharing increasing
rapidly over time. October 5, 2017. Available at: https://www.kff.org/
health-costs/issue-brief/payments-for-cost-sharing-increasing-rapidlyover-time/. Accessed September 4, 2018.
653. Mincer J. Ballooning bills. More US hospitals pushing patients to pay
before care. Reuters; 2007. Available at: https://www.reuters.com/
article/us-usa-healthcare-hospital-payments/ballooning-bills-moreu-s-hospitals-pushing-patients-to-pay-before-care-idUSKBN17F1
CM. Accessed July 30, 2021.
654. Hudec W. Massachusetts becomes ﬁrst state to publish prices of
health care services. December 4, 2017. Available at: https://www.
advisory.com/research/medical-group-strategy-council/practicenotes/2014/december/mass-price-transparency.
Accessed
September 4, 2018.
655. Hurtubise S. Gallop: Peak number of Americans delaying medical
care over costs. November 2, 2014. Available at: http://dailycaller.
com/2014/11/28/gallup-peak-number-of-americans-delaying-medicalcare-over-costs/. Accessed September 4, 2018.
656. Abraham T. CMS ﬁnalizes rule requiring hospitals to post prices
online. August 3, 2018. Available at: https://www.healthcaredive.
com/news/cms-ﬁnalizes-rule-requiring-hospitals-to-post-pricesonline/529261/. Accessed September 11, 2018.
657. Garrison LP Jr. Cost-effectiveness and clinical practice guidelines:
have we reached a tipping point? An overview. Value Health 2016;19:
512-5.
658. Anderson JL, Heidenreich PA, Barnett PG, Creager MA, Fonarow GC,
Gibbons RJ, et al. ACC/AHA statement on cost/value methodology
in clinical practice guidelines and performance measures: a report
of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association

Task Force on Performance Measures and Task Force on Practice
Guidelines. Circulation 2014;129:2329-45.
659. Ecker RD, Brown RD Jr, Nichols DA, McClelland RL, Reinalda MS,
Piepgras DG, et al. Cost of treating high-risk symptomatic carotid
artery stenosis: stent insertion and angioplasty compared with
endarterectomy. J NeuroSurg 2004;101:904-7.
660. Park B, Mavanur A, Dahn M, Menzoian J. Clinical outcomes and cost
comparison of carotid artery angioplasty with stenting versus carotid endarterectomy. J Vasc Surg 2006;44:270-6.
661. Kim JH, Choi JB, Park HK, Kim KH, Kuh JH. Cost-effectiveness of
carotid endarterectomy versus carotid artery stenting for treatment
of carotid artery stenosis. Korean J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2014;47:
20-5.
662. Pawaskar M, Satiani B, Balkrishnan R, Starr JE. Economic evaluation of carotid artery stenting versus carotid endarterectomy for
the treatment of carotid artery stenosis. J Am Coll Surg 2007;205:
413-9.
663. Sternbergh WC 3rd, Crenshaw GD, Bazan HA, Smith TA. Carotid
endarterectomy is more cost-effective than carotid artery stenting.
J Vasc Surg 2012;55:1623-8.
664. Obeid T, Alshaikh H, Nejim B, Arhuidese I, Locham S, Malas M. Fixed
and variable cost of carotid endarterectomy and stenting in the
United States: a comparative study. J Vasc Surg 2017;65:1398-1406.e1.
665. de Vries EE, Baldew VGM, den Ruijter HM, de Borst GJ. Meta-analysis
of the costs of carotid artery stenting and carotid endarterectomy.
Br J Surg 2017;104:1284-92.
666. McDonald RJ, Kallmes DF, Cloft HJ. Comparison of hospitalization
costs and Medicare payments for carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting in asymptomatic patients. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol
2012;33:420-5.
667. Donovan MJ, Ramirez DE, Crenshaw GD, Smith TA, Bazan HA,
Sternbergh WC 3rd. Hospital reimbursement for carotid stenting
and endarterectomy. J Endovasc Ther 2014;21:296-302.
668. Kilaru S, Korn P, Kasirajan K, Lee TY, Beavers FP, Lyon RT, et al. Is
carotid angioplasty and stenting more cost effective than carotid
endarterectomy? J Vasc Surg 2003;37:331-9.
669. Oh SH, You JH, Lee JY, Park JJ, Shin S. Cost-utility analysis of carotid
artery stenting versus endarterectomy for symptomatic carotid
stenosis patients. Value Health 2014;17:A491.
670. Almekhlaﬁ MA, Hill MD, Wiebe S, Goyal M, Yavin D, Wong JH, et al.
When is carotid angioplasty and stenting the cost-effective alternative for revascularization of symptomatic carotid stenosis? A Canadian health system perspective. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 2014;35:
327-32.
671. Khan AA, Chaudhry SA, Sivagnanam K, Hassan AE, Suri MF,
Qureshi AI. Cost-effectiveness of carotid artery stent placement
versus endarterectomy in patients with carotid artery stenosis.
J NeuroSurg 2012;117:89-93.
672. Vilain KR, Magnuson EA, Li H, Clark WM, Begg RJ, Sam AD 2nd, et al.
Costs and cost-effectiveness of carotid stenting versus endarterectomy for patients at standard surgical risk: results from the Carotid
Revascularization Endarterectomy Versus Stenting Trial (CREST).
Stroke 2012;43:2408-16.
673. Morris S, Patel NV, Dobson J, Featherstone RL, Richards T, LuengoFernandez R, et al. Cost-utility analysis of stenting versus endarterectomy in the International Carotid Stenting Study. Int J Stroke
2016;11:446-53.
674. Rinaldo L, Brinjikji W, Cloft H, DeMartino RR, Lanzino G. Investigation
into drivers of cost of stenting for carotid stenosis. J Vasc Surg
2017;66:786-93.

Submitted Apr 19, 2021; accepted Apr 28, 2021.


