CLINICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINES
The Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice guidelines on
popliteal artery aneurysms
Alik Farber, MD, MBA,a Niren Angle, MD,b Efthymios Avgerinos, MD,c Luc Dubois, MD,d
Mohammad Eslami, MD,e Patrick Geraghty, MD,f Mounir Haurani, MD,g Jeffrey Jim, MD, MPHS,h
Erika Ketteler, MD,i Raffaele Pulli, MD,j Jeffrey J. Siracuse, MD, MBA,a and M. Hassan Murad, MD, MPH,k Boston,
Mass; Danville, Calif; Pittsburgh, Pa; London, Ontario, Canada; St. Louis, Mo; Columbus, Ohio; Minneapolis and Rochester,
Minn; Albuquerque, NM; and Bari, Italy

ABSTRACT
The Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice guidelines on popliteal artery aneurysms (PAAs) leverage the work of a
panel of experts chosen by the Society for Vascular Surgery to review the current world literature as it applies to PAAs to
extract the most salient, evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of these patients. These guidelines focus on
PAA screening, indications for intervention, choice of repair strategy, management of asymptomatic and symptomatic
PAAs (including those presenting with acute limb ischemia), and follow-up of both untreated and treated PAAs. They offer
long-awaited evidence-based recommendations for physicians taking care of these patients. (J Vasc Surg 2022;75:109S-20S.)
Keywords: Acute limb ischemia; Guidelines; Popliteal artery aneurysms; Thrombolysis

SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
1. We recommend that patients who present with a
PAA are screened for both a contralateral PAA and
an AAA. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: B (moderate)
2. We recommend that patients with an asymptomatic PAA $20 mm in diameter should undergo
repair to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications and limb loss. Level of recommendation:
grade 1 (strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate).
For selected patients at higher clinical risk, repair
can be deferred until the PAA has become
$30 mm, especially in the absence of thrombus.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality
of evidence: C (low)

3. We suggest that for patients with a PAA <20 mm, in
the presence of thrombus and clinical suspicion of embolism or imaging evidence of poor distal runoff, repair
should be considered to prevent thromboembolic
complications and possible limb loss. Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C
(low)
4. For asymptomatic patients, with a life expectancy of
$5 years, we suggest open PAA repair, provided that
an adequate saphenous vein is present. For patients
with a diminished life expectancy, if intervention is
indicated, endovascular repair should be considered.
Level of recommendation: grade 2 (weak); quality
of evidence: C (low)
5. We recommend that intervention for thrombotic and/
or embolic complications of PAA be stratiﬁed by the

From the Boston Medical Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Bos-

Correspondence: Alik Farber, MD, MBA, Boston Medical Center, 1 Boston Medi-

tona; the John Muir Medical Center, Danvilleb; the Clinic of Vascular and

cal Center Place, Ste D506, Collamore, Boston, MA 02118 (e-mail: alik.farber@

Endovascular Surgery, Athens Medical Group, University of Athens, Athensc;

bmc.org).

the London Health Sciences Center, Western University, Londond; the Univer-

Independent peer review and oversight has been provided by members of the

sity of Pittsburgh Medical Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburghe; the

Society for Vascular Surgery Document Oversight Committee (Ruth Bush, Chair,

School of Medicine, Washington University, St Louisf; The Ohio State Univer-

Marc Schermerhorn, Vice-Chair, Keith Calligaro, Yazan Duwayri, Raul Guzman,

sity Medical Center, Columbusg; the Minneapolis Heart Institute, Abbott

Gregory Landry, Mahmoud Malas, Katherine McGinigle, J. Sheppard Mondy,

Northwestern Hospital, Minneapolish; the New Mexico Veterans Affairs Health

John Rectenwald, William Robinson, Britt Tonnessen, and Greg Westin).

Care System, Albuquerquei; the University of Barij; and the Evidence-Based

0741-5214

Practice Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester.k

Copyright Ó 2021 by the Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc.

Author conﬂict of interest: none.

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2021.04.040

109S

110S

Farber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

severity of ALI at presentation. We recommend that patients with mild to moderate ALI (Rutherford grade I
and IIa) and severely obstructed tibiopedal arteries undergo thrombolysis or pharmacomechanical intervention to improve runoff status, with prompt transition
to deﬁnitive PAA repair. We recommend that patients
with severe ALI (Rutherford grade IIb) undergo prompt
surgical or endovascular PAA repair, with the use of
adjunctive surgical thromboembolectomy or pharmacomechanical intervention to maximize tibiopedal
outﬂow. Nonviable limbs (Rutherford grade III) require
amputation. Level of recommendation: grade 1
(strong); quality of evidence: B (moderate)
6. We recommend that patients who undergo OPAR or
EPAR should be followed up using clinical examination, ABI, and DUS at 3, 6, and 12 months during the
ﬁrst postoperative year and, if stable, annually thereafter. In addition to DUS evaluation of the repair, the
aneurysm sac should be evaluated for evidence of
enlargement. If abnormalities are found on clinical examination, ABI, or DUS, appropriate clinical management according to the lower extremity endovascular
or open bypass guidelines should be undertaken.
Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong); quality
of evidence: B (moderate). If compressive symptoms
or symptomatic aneurysm sac expansion are noted,
we suggest surgical decompression of the aneurysm
sac. Level of recommendation: grade 1 (strong);
quality of evidence: C (low)
7. We suggest that patients with an asymptomatic PAA
who are not offered repair should be monitored annually for changes in symptoms, pulse examination,
extent of thrombus, patency of the outﬂow arteries,
and aneurysm diameter. Level of recommendation:
grade 2 (weak); quality of evidence: C (low)

Popliteal artery aneurysms (PAAs) are the most common peripheral arterial aneurysms, deﬁned as aneurysms outside the aortoiliac system or the brain,
accounting for 70% of all peripheral arterial aneurysms.1
They are more common in men (95%)2,3 and tend to
occur in the sixth and seventh decades of life.1 Few modern studies have been performed on the natural history
of PAAs, and many of these were retrospective reviews
of surgical patients. As such, the timing and details of
PAA management remain nuanced.
The popliteal artery begins as the superﬁcial femoral artery emerges from the adductor hiatus. It courses behind
the knee enveloped in a sheath and surrounded by a fat
pad.4 The popliteal artery gives off genicular branches
that surround the knee, acting as important pathways
for collateral circulation, and divides into the anterior tibial
artery and the tibioperoneal trunk in the proximal calf.
The normal popliteal artery measures 5 to 9 mm in diameter and is generally larger in men by 1 to 2 mm.5-8 It is
generally considered aneurysmal when its diameter exceeds 15 mm or when it is 1.5 larger than its normal
diameter.1,9-11 Asymptomatic PAAs that are <20 mm in

diameter can be expected to have a growth rate of 0.3
to 1.5 mm annually.12-14 The rate of growth for aneurysms
>20 mm in diameter is variable from no
growth reported for most patients to #3 mm/y in
others.9,13,15 Independent factors associated with PAA
growth include the initial aneurysm diameter and the
presence of mural thrombus.16 A prospective analysis
showed that the initial PAA size inﬂuenced the rate of
subsequent growth. When stratiﬁed by the initial size,
PAAs <20 mm grew at 1.5 mm/y, PAAs 20 to 30 mm
grew 3 mm/y, and those >30 mm grew 3.7 mm/y. The
most recent retrospective analysis of 87 asymptomatic
PAAs demonstrated that smaller size aneurysms may
demonstrate a slower growth rate for a number of years
before an accelerated growth phase occurs,16 conﬁrming
previous observations that PAAs with greater diameters
will enlarge more rapidly than those with smaller diameters.12-14,16,17
Most patients with PAAs will be asymptomatic at the
time of detection. In a review of multiple studies, totaling
>4000 patients, ~40% of patients were asymptomatic at
repair.2 Among asymptomatic patients with PAAs, 14%
to 24% will become symptomatic within 1 to 2 years and
31% to 68% will develop complications during the patient’s lifetime.15,18-20 Symptoms usually result from acute
or chronic limb ischemia caused by distal embolism to the
tibial runoff vessels with or without associated aneurysm
thrombosis.21 The progression to PAA thrombosis has
been associated with inﬂow and/or outﬂow occlusion.22
Patients presenting with a thrombosed PAA can have severe limb ischemia owing to disruption of the collateral
circulation and loss of outﬂow vessels owing to chronic silent thromboemboli that often precede the acute event.
These patients require an expeditious diagnosis and treatment to prevent limb loss. In a systematic review of 895
cases of acute limb ischemia (ALI) due to PAA, the early
amputation rate was 14%.23 Patients presenting with
chronic symptoms can be clinically indistinguishable
from those presenting with atherosclerotic arterial occlusive disease. A high index of suspicion is, therefore, necessary to distinguish patients with chronically symptomatic
PAAs from those with symptoms due to peripheral arterial
occlusive disease (PAD). PAAs can also present with
rupture, although this is rare.1 Compressive symptoms
resulting in venous congestion, leg swelling, deep vein
thrombosis, and/or neuropathy have also been reported
but are very uncommon.1,2
Frequently, the patient history will not be diagnostic
and the physical examination ﬁndings will be insensitive
even when detecting a prominent popliteal artery. The
diagnosis of PAA, therefore, requires conﬁrmatory imaging studies, which will also be helpful in treatment
planning.24
Duplex ultrasound (DUS) has been shown to be highly
sensitive and speciﬁc for the detection of PAAs, with a reported accuracy close to 100%.24,25 Computed

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

111S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Table. Society for Vascular Surgery clinical practice guidelines on popliteal artery aneurysms: recommendations
Investigator

Population

Interventions

Outcomes

Methodologic quality

Recommendation 1:We recommend that patients who present with a PAA are screened for both a contralateral PAA and an AAA (grade 1B)
Dawson et al,1
1997

Patients with PAAs (review of
literature)

Variable

For >1600 cases reported, average rate
of bilateral PAA was 50%, and
average rate of associated AAAs was
36%

Mix of mostly
retrospective and a
few prospective
studies

Tsilimparis et al,2
2013

Tabular review of series of
PAA patients

Variable

In >2600 patients from studies
reported in previous 25 years, average
rate of bilateral PAA was 48% and of
concomitant AAA was 38%

Mix of mostly
retrospective and a
few prospective
studies

Recommendation 2:We recommend that patients with an asymptomatic PAA >20 mm in diameter should undergo repair to reduce the
risk of thromboembolic complications and limb loss (grade 1B). For selected patients at higher clinical risk, repair can be deferred until
the PAA has become >30 mm, especially in the absence of thrombus (grade 2C)
Cousins et al,16
2018

Asymptomatic PAAs treated
for $1 year of medical and
observational
management before repair

Variable

87 PAAs in 65 patients were evaluated;
mean initial diameter at diagnosis
was 16.9 mm; multivariable analysis
determined that initial diameter (OR,
5.53; P ¼ .007) and presence or
development of mural thrombus
(OR, 4.00; P ¼ .008) independently
predicted for PAA diameter growth

Retrospective study

Lowell et al,17
1994

Consecutive patients with
symptomatic or
asymptomatic PAAs

Variable

161 PAAs in 106 patients were followed
up for a mean of 6.7 years (range,
3 days to 12.1 years); 15 limbs
presented with acute symptoms, 52
with chronic symptoms, and 94 were
asymptomatic; $1 of 3 risk factors
(size, >2 cm, thrombus, poor runoff)
was initially present in 11 of 12 limbs
(91.7%) compared with 9 of 24 control
limbs (37.5%) that remained
asymptomatic (P < .05)

Retrospective study

Galland et al,29
2005

Consecutive patients with
symptomatic or
asymptomatic PAA

Variable

116 PAAs in 73 patients, 39 (34%) with
acute ischemia; size and distortion
were greater in PAAs presenting with
acute ischemia than in
asymptomatic PAAs (P < .01); degree
of distortion differentiated
symptomatic from asymptomatic
PAAs (P ¼ .0066); size was not
signiﬁcantly different between these
2 groups; for PAA $3 cm in diameter
with $45 distortion, sensitivity,
speciﬁcity, and positive and negative
predictive values for thrombosis were
90%, 89%, 83%, and 94%, respectively

Prospective study

Recommendation 3: We suggest that for patients with a PAA <20 mm, in the presence of thrombus and clinical suspicion of embolism or
imaging evidence of poor distal runoff, repair should be considered to prevent thromboembolic complications and possible limb loss
(grade 2C)
Ascher et al,30
2003

34 PAAs in 25 patients; 14
(41%) had no symptoms
(group 1) and 20 (59%) had
symptoms (group 2)

Bypass surgery

PAA diameter averaged 2.8 6 0.7 cm
(range, 1.8-4.5 cm) in group 1 and
2.2 6 0.8 cm (range, 1.3-4.0 cm) in
group 2 (P < .03); PAA thrombosis
was present in 7 of 20 limbs in group
2; 4 of these patients had ipsilateral
SFA thrombosis; evaluation of
infrapopliteal arteries in group 1
showed 3-vessel runoff in 7 limbs, 2vessel runoff in 3 limbs, 1-vessel runoff
in 2 limbs, and no vessel runoff in 2
limbs; all infrapopliteal arteries were
either occluded or signiﬁcantly
stenotic in 14 limbs (70%); in group 2,
1-vessel runoff was observed in 5
limbs, and 2-vessel runoff in 1 limb

Retrospective study

(Continued on next page)

112S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

January Supplement 2022

Table. Continued.
Investigator
Dawson et al,20
1994

Population

Interventions

Outcomes

Methodologic quality

Asymptomatic PAAs

Observation

42 Patients with mean PAA diameter of
3.1 cm (range, 1.8-8.0 cm); 1 or both
ankle pulses were absent in 18/42
limbs; during follow-up, 25/42
asymptomatic PAAs under
observation had complications at
mean observation of 18 months
(range, 1 day to 65 months); absent
ankle pulses at initial examination
signiﬁcantly predicted for natural
history of asymptomatic PAA; risk of
complications was also greater with
increasing diameter ($2 cm)

Retrospective study

Recommendation 4: For asymptomatic patients with a life expectancy of $5 years, we suggest open PAA repair, provided that an adequate
saphenous vein is present; for patients with a diminished life expectancy, if intervention is indicated, endovascular repair should be
considered (grade 2C)
Garg et al,31 2012

21 PAA patients

EPAR

3 Graft failures of 20 procedures; open
thrombectomy (n ¼ 2) and
femorotibial bypass (n ¼ 1);
signiﬁcantly increased graft failure
rate with 1-compared with 2- or 3vessel runoff

Retrospective study;
moderate
methodologic quality

Serrano
Hernando
et al,32 2015

171 PAAs in 142 men; 53.3%
asymptomatic

139 OPAR, 32 EPAR

27 Occlusions (14.4% OPAR, 21.8%
EPAR); only variable associated with
patency on multivariate analysis was
poor runoff

Retrospective study;
moderate
methodologic quality

Beuschel et al,33
2020

e

e

Eslami et al,34
2015

Asymptomatic PAAs in VQI
from 2010 to 2013

221 OPAR, 169 EPAR; OPAR patients had signiﬁcantly greater
MALE, loss of primary
MALE-free survival (95% vs 80%;
P < .001) and MALE-PODefree
patency, and MALEsurvival (93% vs 80%; P < .001) rates at
free survival were
1 year after procedure; OPAR was
compared
associated with lower hazard of
MALE (HR, 0.35; 95% CI, 0.15-0.86;
P < .05), MALE-POD (HR, 0.28; 95% CI,
0.13-0.63; P < .05), and primary
patency loss (HR, 0.25; 95% CI,
0.10-0.58; P < .05)

Retrospective, multiinstitutional registry
study; moderate
methodologic quality

Galinanes et al,35
2013

PAA repair in Medicare
beneﬁciaries, 2005-2007

Comparison of 2962
Greater LOS and hospital charges for
Medicare patients
OPAR; greater 30- and 90-day
after OPAR (n ¼ 2413)
reinterventions for
and EPAR (n ¼ 549);
EPAR (4.6% vs 2.1%; P ¼ .001;
reintervention rates,
11.8% vs 7.4%; P ¼ .0007, respectively)
LOS, and charges

Retrospective
administrative
database; moderate
to low methodologic
quality

Systematic review of 1
Meta-analysis of mainly
high risk of bias RCT
nonrandomized studies (1 small RCT)
and observational
showed that, compared with EPAR,
studies
OPAR was associated with greater
primary patency at 1 year (OR, 2.13;
95% CI, 1.45-3.14) and 3 years (OR, 1.41;
95% CI, 0.99-2.01), lower occlusion
rate at 30 days (OR, 0.41; 95% CI,
0.24-0.68), and fewer reinterventions
but longer hospital stay and more
wound complications; no signiﬁcant
difference was found in mortality
(OR, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.06-1.36 at 30 days;
OR, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.21-1.17 at longest
follow up), secondary patency (OR,
1.59; 95% CI, 0.92-3.07 at 1 year), or
amputation rate (OR, 0.85; 95% CI,
0.56-1.31) between OPAR and EPAR;
certainty for these estimates was, in
general, low

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

113S

Volume 75, Number 1S

Table. Continued.
Investigator

Population

Interventions

Outcomes

Methodologic quality

Pulli et al,36 2012

PAA repair

Pulli et al,37 2013

PAA repair

Comparison of 178
OPAR and 134 EPAR
outcomes, including
primary patency and
limb loss

Similar outcomes noted between
OPAR and EPAR

Retrospective multiinstitution analysis;
moderate
methodologic quality

Leake et al,38
2017

PAA repair

Meta-analysis of 14
studies, including
4880 PAA repairs
(OPAR, 3915; EPAR,
1210)

OPAR had longer LOS (SMD, 2.158; 95%
CI, 1.225-3.090; P < .001) and fewer
reinterventions (OR, 0.275; 95% CI,
0.166-0.454; P < .001); primary
patency was better for OPAR at 1 and
3 years (RR, 0.607 [P ¼ .01]; RR, 0.580
[P ¼ .006], respectively); no difference
in secondary patency at 1 and 3 years
(RR, 0.770 [P ¼ .458]; RR, 0.642
[P ¼ .073], respectively)

Systematic review of
one low-quality RCT
and observational
studies

Patients with PAA

15 OPAR, 15 EPAR,
comparison of
outcomes

Similar outcomes between OPAR and
EPAR

Single-center,
prospective
randomized trial of
low power but
appropriate method

Antonello et al,39
2005

Comparison of 43 OPAR Equal outcomes across all compared
and 21 EPAR
between OPAR and EPAR
outcomes

Retrospective singleinstitution analysis;
moderate
methodologic quality

Recommendation 5: We recommend that intervention for thrombotic and/or embolic complications of PAA be stratiﬁed by the severity of
ALI at presentation. We recommend that patients with mild to moderate ALI (Rutherford grade I and IIa) and severely obstructed
tibiopedal arteries undergo thrombolysis or pharmacomechanical intervention to improve runoff status, with prompt transition to
deﬁnitive PAA repair. We recommend that patients with severe ALI (Rutherford grade IIb) should undergo prompt surgical or
endovascular PAA repair, with the use of adjunctive surgical thromboembolectomy or pharmacomechanical intervention to maximize
tibiopedal outﬂow. Nonviable limbs (Rutherford grade III) require amputation (grade 1B)
Marty et al,40
2002

12 Patients with ALI,
Rutherford grade IIa; 1 with
ALI, Rutherford grade IIb

All patients received
preoperative
thrombolysis

Thrombolysis failures (3/13) predicted
for bypass failure and AKA;
thrombolysis for ALI IIb resulted in
rhabdomyolysis and death

Retrospective study;
moderate
methodologic quality

Pulli et al,41 2006

17 Patients with ALI,
Rutherford grade I-IIa; 19
with ALI, Rutherford grade
IIb

11/17 Thrombolysis patients (64.5%) had
17 Patients with
Rutherford grade I-IIa restoration of patency of PAA and $1
tibial vessel
received preoperative
lysis; 19 with
Rutherford grade IIb
underwent open
repair

Retrospective study;
moderate
methodologic quality

Kropman et al,23
2010

895 Patients with ALI (122
with Rutherford grade
noted: 101, IIa; 18, IIb; 3, III)

313, Lysis (255
preoperatively); 551,
OPAR; 31, primary
amputation

Pre- and intraoperative thrombolysis
plus bypass yielded improved graft
patency rates at 1 year but no change
in amputation rates compared with
surgical thrombectomy plus bypass

Systematic review (8
prospective, 25
retrospective); good
methodologic quality

Pulli et al,37 2013

51 Patients with ALI: 40,
Rutherford grade I-IIa; 11, IIb

Patients with I-IIa
At 48 months, limb salvage was 81.5%
received lysis then
repair (30 OPAR; 10
EPAR); patients with
IIb received OPAR

Multicenter
retrospective study;
moderate
methodologic quality

Dorigo et al,42
2002

24 Patients with ALI,
Rutherford grade I-IIa

10 Patients received
OPAR; 14, lysis
followed by OPAR

Perioperative (30-day) limb salvage was
70% for OPAR, which improved to
86% with addition of thrombolysis

Retrospective
comparative study;
moderate
methodologic quality

Dorigo et al,43
2018

13 Patients with ALI (8 with
Rutherford grade I-IIa)

8 Patients treated with
lysis

6/8 (75%) Successful

Retrospective
multicenter study;
moderate
methodologic quality

Huang et al,44
2007

358 Cases of PAA in 289
74 Patients with ALI; 24 30-Day primary patency for ALI grade II Retrospective, singlepatients; 74 (21%) with ALI
received preoperative
patients increased with lysis (96% 6
center study;
lysis
4% vs 80% 6 9%)
moderate
methodologic quality

(Continued on next page)

114S

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

January Supplement 2022

Table. Continued.
Investigator

Population

Interventions

Outcomes

Methodologic quality

Recommendation 6: We recommend that patients who undergo OPAR or EPAR should be followed up using clinical examination, ankle
brachial index (ABI), and DUS at 3, 6, and 12 months during the ﬁrst postoperative year and, if stable, annually thereafter. In addition to
DUS evaluation of the repair, the aneurysm sac should be evaluated for evidence of enlargement. If abnormalities are found on clinical
examination, ABI, or DUS, appropriate clinical management according to the lower extremity endovascular or open bypass guidelines
should be undertaken (grade 1B). If compressive symptoms or symptomatic aneurysm sac expansion are noted, we suggest surgical
decompression of the aneurysm sac (grade 1C)
Zierler et al,45
2018

SVS review of multiple
endovascular and open
lower extremity
revascularization
procedures

DUS, ABI, and physical
examination
surveillance
recommended at 1, 6,
and 12 months, then
annually

Stone et al,46
2005

55 Patients with PAAs

DUS at discharge, every One third of PAAs repaired by OPAR or Retrospective review;
3 months for 2 years,
EPAR required secondary
moderate
then every 6 months
intervention within 2 years
methodologic quality

Piazza et al,47
2014

46 EPARs

Davies et al,48
2010

48 Patients with 63 PAAs

Numerous studies ($2300) have
demonstrated that identifying and
repairing graft-threatening lesions
prolongs bypass patency

DUS surveillance at 1, 6, 11 Stent-graft failures; 63% within ﬁrst
12 months, then
year
annually

Retrospective and
meta-analysis

Retrospective review;
moderate
methodologic quality

DUS surveillance but no 5 PAAs with ﬂow into sac and aneurysm Retrospective review;
schedule reported
growth
moderate
methodologic quality

Recommendation 7: We suggest that patients with an asymptomatic PAA who are not offered repair should be monitored annually for
changes in symptoms, pulse examination, extent of thrombus, patency of the outﬂow arteries, and aneurysm diameter (grade 2C)
Dawson et al,20
1994

42 Patients with
asymptomatic PAAs

Ascher et al,30
2003

34 Patients identiﬁed
retrospectively with PAA

Variable

Size did not accurately predict for
complications; aneurysms <2 cm still
posed risk of thrombosis and
complications

Retrospective case
series

Dawson et al,1
1997

Review of 13 retrospective
case series; 437 aneurysms
total

Variable

Complications developed at a mean
observation time of 18 months;
complication rate varied, 8%-100%;
amputation rate with complications,
25%

Retrospective case
series

Schröder et al,49 Retrospective review of 217
1996
patients

Variable

53% of patients treated conservatively
were free of symptoms at 5 years

Retrospective case
series

Farina et al,50
1989

Variable

36% of 14 patients treated
conservatively had complications at a
mean of 26 months

Retrospective case
series

Retrospective review of 50
aneurysms

Monitored for symptoms 24% Developed complications within
and complications
1 year, and 68% developed
complications due to PAAs within
5 years; absence of ankle pulses was a
strong predictor of complications

Retrospective case
series

AAA, Abdominal aortic aneurysm; ABI, ankle brachial index; AKA, above the knee amputation; ALI, acute limb ischemia; CI, conﬁdence interval; DUS,
duplex ultrasound; EPAR, endovascular popliteal artery aneurysm repair; HR, hazard ratio; LOS, length of stay; MALE, major adverse limb events; OPAR,
open popliteal artery aneurysm repair; OR, odds ratio; PAA, popliteal artery aneurysm; POD, perioperative death; RCT, randomized controlled trial; RR,
relative risk; SFA, superﬁcial femoral artery; SMD, standardized mean difference; SVS, Society for Vascular Surgery; VQI, Vascular Quality Initiative.

tomography angiography and magnetic resonance angiography can be used to identify the proximal and distal
extent of the PAA, assess arterial inﬂow and outﬂow, and
to plan the repair. Catheter-directed digital subtraction
angiography has mainly been used for ALI when thrombolytic therapy is needed, when evaluating for concurrent
endovascular repair, or to better assess a distal arterial
target for open repair using lower extremity bypass.
Although very few PAA-speciﬁc studies have been reported on the optimal medical management, given
that PAAs and atherosclerotic occlusive disease often
occur together, the risk modiﬁcation strategies and
guidelines established for asymptomatic PAD or aortic

aneurysmal disease are often followed for patients with
PAAs.26,27 Thus, patients with a PAA who smoke should
be counseled to cease smoking and be medically
treated to control hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes, as part of an atherosclerotic factor control strategy.
Although statins and antiplatelet agents may be indicated for that purpose, they have not been deﬁnitively
shown to affect the natural history of PAAs. The only
study that evaluated the effect of medication (eg, statins,
anticoagulant agents, b-blockers, and antiarrhythmic
agents) on PAA growth found no correlation, although
the sample size was too small for meaningful
conclusions.16

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

115S

Volume 75, Number 1S

When surgical treatment of a PAA is indicated, both
open and endovascular approaches can be used. Endovascular PAA repair (EPAR) is a less invasive procedure in
which a stent-graft is deployed across the PAA. In open
PAA repair (OPAR), if the medial approach is used, the
aneurysm should be bypassed with proximal and distal
ligation of the aneurysm sac. Sac obliteration is desirable
but can be technically difﬁcult to complete. If the posterior approach is used, bypass and aneurysmorrhaphy
should be performed. In patients with very large PAAs
and compressive symptoms, the posterior approach is advantageous because it allows for complete decompression of the aneurysm sac. In some patients with PAA
who present with ALI, thrombolysis has been used as an
adjunct to EPAR or OPAR.
The reported data on PAAs were exhaustively evaluated
by a working group of experts appointed by the Document Oversight Committee of the Society for Vascular
Surgery (SVS). This working group identiﬁed seven guidelines from the available reported data using the Grading
of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and
Evaluation (GRADE) approach28 that represent the most
salient elements surrounding the treatment of patients
with PAAs and in the present report has presented these
guidelines, the evidence table (Table), and the
relevant literature to support their use. It is important to
note that in the management of PAAs, a dearth of highquality evidence is available to guide clinical decisionmaking. Rigorous well-controlled studies are badly
needed to establish further clarity in this clinical area. As
such, experienced clinicians can exercise considerable
latitude in their approach to treating these complex
patients.

METHODS
Guideline framework. Our expert panel used the
GRADE approach to rate the quality of the available evidence and to grade the strength of the recommendations. This system, adopted by many other organizations,
categorizes the recommendations as strong GRADE 1 or
weak GRADE 2 according to the quality of the evidence,
the balance between desirable and undesirable effects,
the patient’s values and preferences, and the required resources, feasibility and acceptability. GRADE 1 recommendations are meant to identify clinical practices for which
the associated beneﬁt clearly outweighs the risk. These
recommendations can be made by clinicians and
accepted by patients with a high degree of conﬁdence.
GRADE 2 recommendations are made when the beneﬁts
and risks are more closely matched and, as such, are more
dependent on speciﬁc clinical scenarios. In general,
clinician and patient preferences will play a more important role in the decision-making process in such circumstances. The SVS adjusted the GRADE rubric such that the
level of evidence to support the recommendation is
divided into three categories: A, high quality; B, moderate

quality; and C, low quality. Conclusions based on highquality evidence are unlikely to change with further
investigation. In contrast, those based on moderatequality evidence are more likely to be affected by future
research. Finally, those based on low-quality evidence are
the least supported by the current data and the most
likely to be subject to change in the future. On occasion, a
GRADE 1 recommendation can be made from low-quality
(C) evidence.28 The expert panel reached a consensus for
all the recommendations and their level of supporting
evidence. These guidelines represent a “living document,”
because new evidence is continually being collected and,
as such, will require periodic updates as more is learned
about the evaluation and management of PAAs.
Evidence to decision framework (decisional factors).
Little is known about the values and preferences of patients with PAAs owing to the rarity of the condition.
Therefore, the guideline committee members used their
clinical expertise and assumed patient values from interactions with their patients. Most patients consider mortality and amputation as the most critical outcomes,
followed by reintervention and patency. Patients would
likely prefer an endovascular approach, unless it was
clearly inferior in terms of its effect on these outcomes.
This is consistent with the patient values derived from
other similar contexts in vascular surgery, such as abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs).51 Interviews with patients
with small AAAs have demonstrated that they cared the
most about postoperative morbidity and mortality
compared with the need for surveillance and the risk of
long-term problems with endovascular repair.51 In terms
of cost, an evaluation of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services Inpatient claims (2005-2007) suggested that the medical and surgical supply charges for
endovascular repair of PAAs ($15,029) are considerably
greater than those for open surgery ($3188). However,
open repair overall costs more than the endovascular
approach ($43,180 vs $35,540, respectively).35 In contrast, a
decision analysis suggested that traditional open repair
with great saphenous vein (GSV) bypass might be the
preferred treatment for 65-year-old asymptomatic patients with PAAs when all outcomes are considered.52 The
guidelines committee did not conduct a formal costeffectiveness analysis, and cost was not considered a
major factor in making the recommendations. Endovascular and open approaches were both considered
acceptable by patients and feasible in most settings if
surgical expertise is available.
Evidence synthesis. The expert panel commissioned a
systematic review of the MEDLINE, Embase, and
Cochrane databases and Scopus that focused on evaluating two seminal research questions that relate to the
management of PAAs. The ﬁrst question evaluated the
natural history of PAAs in an attempt to assess the timing

116S

Farber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

of intervention. The second question appraised and
compared the efﬁcacy of OPAR and EPAR. The Mayo
Clinic Evidence-Based Practice Center conducted the
reviews. The search strategy identiﬁed 2191 references, of
which 33 original studies and 4 systematic reviews were
included. One systematic review of 13 studies and two
additional original studies (836 PAAs) had evaluated the
natural history question, and 3 meta-analyses and 31
studies (5381 patients and >5000 PAAs) had evaluated
the comparative question. The methodology group performing the systematic review independently selected
and appraised the studies and subsequently collaborated with the expert panel to integrate evidence into
recommendations.33
Guidelines. Recommendation 1:We recommend that
patients who present with a PAA are screened for
both a contralateral PAA and an AAA (grade 1B)
The incidence of PAAs in the general population is relatively low, ranging from 0.1% to 2.8%.10,53 Given their rarity, screening unselected patients or patients undergoing
AAA screening has not been found to be cost-effective.54
Patients with a known PAA, however, have a greater risk
of having a contralateral PAA or an AAA. Two separate reviews of the reported data, spanning two separate eras,
both identiﬁed similar rates of contralateral PAAs (48%
and 50%) and associated AAAs (36% and 38%).1,2 Given
these associations, we recommend that patients who
present with a PAA undergo screening of their contralateral leg and abdomen for both PAAs and AAAs, if not
already known, preferably using DUS. Such screening
should be repeated every 5 years.
The incidence of a PAA in patients with an AAA has been
reported to range from 3% to 11%.24,54-56 This incidence appears to be greater in men with an AAA and in patients with
larger AAAs. Routine screening of all patients with small
AAAs for a PAA is controversial and may not be cost-effective.54,57 Men with larger AAAs may beneﬁt from DUS
screening of their popliteal arteries to detect a PAA.24,56
Recommendation 2: We recommend that patients
with an asymptomatic PAA >20 mm in diameter
should undergo repair to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications and limb loss (grade 1B). For
selected patients at higher clinical risk, repair can be
deferred until the PAA has become >30 mm, especially
in the absence of thrombus (grade 2C).
The optimal timing of intervention for asymptomatic
PAA remains unclear. The primary concern with PAA is
the development of thrombotic and embolic complications. Although the aneurysm diameter might not be
the best predictor for future thrombosis, it is readily
measurable and can be used broadly to stratify risk combined with other anatomic parameters. A decision to
treat should balance the risk of thromboembolism with
continued surveillance against the morbidity associated
with procedural intervention.

Elective intervention of PAAs has been shown to be
associated with superior outcomes in terms of limb
salvage compared with PAAs treated emergently. Using
size criteria alone, a general consensus has been
reached that elective intervention should be considered
for PAAs measuring $20 mm in diameter. This
threshold was selected to deter resection of mildly
dilated popliteal arteries and later reinforced given
that symptomatic PAAs typically exceed 20 mm in
diameter. In a study of 106 patients who were followed
up for a mean of 6.7 years, 67 asymptomatic limbs were
managed nonoperatively.17 In this cohort, symptoms
had developed in 12 limbs (17.9%). At least one of three
risk factors (ie, aneurysm size >20 mm, presence of
thrombus, and poor tibial runoff) was present in 91.7%
of the symptomatic group compared with 37.5% of
the control limbs that remained asymptomatic. These
ﬁndings prompted recommendations that patients
with PAAs with any of these factors should undergo
elective repair.
However, other studies have suggested that a higher
threshold for intervention may be appropriate. In a study
of 87 PAAs, it was determined that the initial diameter at
diagnosis and the presence of luminal thrombus were
the most important factors in determining which PAAs
will expand at the greatest rate.16 The investigators recommended that for patients with good surgical risk, an
asymptomatic aneurysm of $25 mm would beneﬁt
from repair. In a retrospective review of 116 PAAs, it was
observed that as the PAA increased in diameter, the degree of proximal angle of distortion also increased.29
Aneurysm size alone was not a signiﬁcant predictor of
symptom development. However, an increased diameter
and degree of distortion occurred more often in PAAs
associated with ALI than in asymptomatic PAAs. The investigators showed that a threshold of 30-mm diameter
and >45 of distortion were highly predictive of thrombosis and provided a reliable method of differentiating
aneurysms best ﬁt for elective repair. Thus, physicians
should, at their discretion, determine their patient’s candidacy for repair and may consider a higher size
threshold of 30 mm for those deemed at high surgical
risk.
Recommendation 3: We suggest that for patients with
a PAA <20 mm, in the presence of thrombus and clinical suspicion of embolism or imaging evidence of poor
distal runoff, repair should be considered to prevent
thromboembolic complications and possible limb
loss (grade 2C).
The probability of embolization and thrombosis may
not necessarily be dependent on aneurysm size. Ascher
et al,30 in their retrospective series of 34 PAAs observed
that patients with smaller PAAs (22 6 8 mm) had a
greater incidence of thrombotic complications and clinical symptoms than those with larger aneurysms (28 6
7 mm).30 Most of the small (ie, <20 mm) aneurysms

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

117S

Volume 75, Number 1S

(64%) were partially thrombosed, although this incidence was not signiﬁcantly different from that of the
larger aneurysms (70%). The investigators also observed
that thrombosis of the PAA did not correlate with aneurysm size.30 When comparing runoff scores, these smaller
symptomatic PAAs had poorer outﬂow vessels. Their
study resulted in consideration of early intervention,
even for PAAs <20 mm, when mural thrombus is present. However, no prospective evidence is available to
further support this. Several studies have otherwise indicated that >70% of PAAs will contain some degree of
thrombus and will form mural thrombus as the PAA enlarges. It remains controversial whether aneurysmal
degeneration results in thrombus formation or if
thrombus formation is responsible for the development
of aneurysmal dilation. As such, surgical treatment determined by the presence of thrombus alone might lead to
unjustiﬁable interventions.
Thrombus presence paired with impaired runoff, regardless of aneurysm diameter, however, might be a better
marker to identify higher risk PAAs. Microembolism from
the aneurysm can be responsible for blue toe syndrome,
and such patients have a high risk of new arterial emboli,
even after successful conservative treatment of the ﬁrst
event. Insidious microemboli can silently, yet signiﬁcantly,
compromise arterial runoff, with detrimental effects on
the outcomes of subsequent interventions. Dawson
et al,20 in a retrospective study of 42 patients, demonstrated an increased risk of complications for patients
with a PAA and no distal pulses compared with those
with pulses present. These investigators suggested that
such patients should not be classiﬁed as asymptomatic
and should be considered for intervention.20
Recommendation 4: For asymptomatic patients with
a life expectancy of $5 years, we suggest open PAA
repair, provided that an adequate saphenous vein is
present. For patients with a diminished life expectancy, if intervention is indicated, endovascular repair
should be considered (grade 2C).
Treatment of patients with an asymptomatic PAA
should be directed toward the reduction of thrombotic
sequelae related to PAAs. In these patients, the exclusion of the PAA from the circulation should be the
main aim of therapy. This objective can be achieved using either OPAR or EPAR. For OPAR, exclusion requires
bypass with interval proximal and distal ligation of the
aneurysm sac. For EPAR, exclusion is accomplished by
sealing off the aneurysm with an endograft. Although
a paucity of adequately powered level 1 prospective
data is available comparing these two modalities,
several studies have reported better long-term outcomes (ie, better patency and fewer major adverse
limb events) after OPAR, especially if a single-segment
GSV was used for the arterial bypass.32,34-39 Given these
observations regarding the better long-term results, for
patients who can tolerate either procedure with an

anticipated life expectancy of $5 years, OPAR should
be considered ﬁrst if adequate GSV is available. An
adequate GSV has been extrapolated from PAD studies
to be a GSV >3 mm in diameter and free of intraluminal
stenoses or synechiae.
In the absence of an adequate single-segment GSV, an
alternative conduit such as an expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene graft can be used with acceptable outcomes.58
An alternative autogenous vein may not provide better
long-term patency outcomes than an expanded polytetraﬂuoroethylene conduit.59 The latter, using a posterior
approach, often allows for a good size match for proximal and distal popliteal arteries in this patient
population.60
Several studies that retrospectively compared the results of different PAA interventions have indicated that
the number of tibial runoff vessels will affect the surgical
outcomes. These studies suggested that the number of
outﬂow arteries could adversely affect the results of
EPAR but not OPAR.31,32 In a recent large study of the
long-term results of EPAR, the investigators found that
aneurysm size, coverage below the knee, and singlevessel runoff were the only predictors of major adverse
limb events.61 Therefore, given the current data, for patients with poor tibial or pedal runoff, OPAR with GSV
is considered preferential to EPAR for good-risk patients. High-risk patients, deﬁned as those with a high
cardiovascular risk or adverse anatomic criteria such as
severe venous stasis or lymphedema, pose a challenge
because the natural history of PAA is known only from
purely retrospective data. As such, for patients with a
poor life expectancy and an asymptomatic PAA, it
may be reasonable to defer any intervention. If treatment of a PAA is indicated for such patients, because
endovascular treatment is less taxing and has fewer
postoperative complications, EPAR should be considered, regardless of the availability of the GSV or quality
of the runoff vessels.
Our literature review suggests that younger age, the
availability of single-segment GSV, challenged runoff vessels, and lower operative risk favor the choice of OPAR.
However, greater equipoise for EPAR is present with
advancing age, an insufﬁcient GSV, the presence of satisfactory landing zones and tibial runoff, and higher operative risk. In the absence of robust comparative data,
thoughtful judgment by an experienced vascular surgeon retains primacy in the selection of the optimal
repair strategy.
Recommendation 5: We recommend that intervention for thrombotic and/or embolic complications of
PAA be stratiﬁed by the severity of ALI at presentation.
We recommend that patients with mild to moderate
ALI (Rutherford grade I and IIa) and severely
obstructed tibiopedal arteries undergo thrombolysis
or pharmacomechanical intervention to improve
runoff status, with prompt transition to deﬁnitive

118S

Farber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

PAA repair. We recommend that patients with severe
ALI (Rutherford grade IIb) should undergo prompt surgical or endovascular PAA repair, with the use of
adjunctive surgical thromboembolectomy or pharmacomechanical intervention to maximize tibiopedal
outﬂow. Nonviable limbs (Rutherford grade III) require
amputation (grade 1B).
When patients present with an acutely thrombosed
PAA, the degree of ischemic insult will determine the
course of management.23,37,43 ALI resulting from PAA
thrombosis is frequently associated with a complete
lack of patent tibiopedal runoff arteries. The indication
for preoperative intra-arterial thrombolysis is restricted to
selected patients who can withstand an additional period
of limb ischemia (Rutherford grade I and IIa).40,42 In this
condition, the rationale for thrombolysis is primarily to
restore runoff for bypass grafting or endovascular repair.
If arteriography demonstrates thrombosis of the PAA
alone, with a good inﬂow source and suitable outﬂow,
lytic therapy is not indicated, and prompt surgical or
endovascular reconstruction should be performed.37 If
the clot extends into the tibial arteries, without a visible
runoff vessel, thrombolysis can be very useful to restore
patency in at least one tibial vessel if the patient tolerates
this intervention and ischemia is not worsened.40-42,44 Patients with limb threatening ischemia (Rutherford grade
IIb) cannot tolerate the additional ischemic time required
by infusion thrombolysis and should urgently undergo
surgical or endovascular revascularization,23,40 with the
use of adjuncts, including mechanical or aspiration
thrombectomy, to clear runoff vessels. For these patients,
combined mechanical and thrombolytic therapy (pharmacomechanical thrombolysis) may increase the lytic effect, reducing the procedural time. Depending on the
severity and duration of ischemia and the physical examination ﬁndings, calf fasciotomies may be required after
successful revascularization.
Failure to establish a bypass target vessel using either
lytic or operative methods can necessitate amputation,
depending on the patient’s clinical condition.40,42 Limbs
that are not salvageable at presentation (Rutherford
grade III) should undergo primary amputation rather
than revascularization to avoid reperfusion injury, potential renal failure, and other complications attendant
upon a nonviable limb.23 The timing of the amputation
is dictated by clinical and physiologic ﬁndings.
Recommendation 6: We recommend that patients
who undergo OPAR or EPAR should be followed up using clinical examination, ankle brachial index (ABI),
and DUS at 3, 6, and 12 months during the ﬁrst postoperative year and, if stable, annually thereafter. In addition to DUS evaluation of the repair, the aneurysm sac
should be evaluated for evidence of enlargement. If
abnormalities are found on clinical examination, ABI,
or DUS, appropriate clinical management according
to the lower extremity endovascular or open bypass

guidelines should be undertaken (grade 1B). If
compressive symptoms or symptomatic aneurysm
sac expansion are noted, we suggest surgical decompression of the aneurysm sac (grade 1C).
Open surgical or endovascular treatment of PAAs requires a protocol of surveillance using DUS. Retrospective reviews have identiﬁed the incidence of secondary
interventions ranging from 33% to 63% in the ﬁrst 2 years
after PAA repair. Speciﬁcally, of 48 surgical reconstructions, DUS identiﬁed 14 graft abnormalities in 12 reconstructions after the initial 30 days. Only seven
endovascular reconstructions and two patients had presented with thrombosis of the stent-grafts within
2 months of treatment. The results from the other ﬁve
DUS scans did not result in any intervention by the
time of the report.46,47 Stenosis is the principal cause
of graft thrombosis, and the SVS guidelines for surveillance after arterial procedures are relevant to PAA
repair, with the recommendation for DUS surveillance
at 3, 6, and 12 months in the ﬁrst year and then annually,
coupled with a physical examination.45 In addition, the
surveillance of the residual aneurysm sac for enlargement is important, because an “endoleak” from genicular branches can result in sac enlargement after OPAR
or EPAR.48 An expanding PAA after treatment has
been documented to be at risk of rupture.62-65 Thus, evidence of residual aneurysm sac enlargement should
encourage serial follow-up examinations and consideration of intervention to prevent potential aneurysm
compression symptoms and/or rupture with clinical
sequelae, including limb loss. Postprocedural use of
atherosclerotic risk factor modiﬁcation, smoking cessation, and pharmacotherapy with statins and antiplatelet
agents should be continued, although data regarding
these treatments have stemmed from management
of PAD rather than PAAs.27 No meaningful data are
available regarding anticoagulation therapy after endovascular repair of PAAs, because most studies have not
reported speciﬁc postoperative medical therapy. Those
that have reported it used antiplatelet therapy. It is
reasonable to use anticoagulation therapy instead of
antiplatelet therapy, extrapolating from the favorable
data for prosthetic graft patency with anticoagulation
therapy. However, a large analysis of meta-analyses
and randomized controlled trials concluded that the
best prophylaxis for vein bypass is anticoagulant therapy and, for prosthetic grafts, dual antiplatelet therapy.66-68
Recommendation 7: We suggest that patients with an
asymptomatic PAA who are not offered repair should
be monitored annually for changes in symptoms, pulse
examination, extent of thrombus, patency of the
outﬂow arteries, and aneurysm diameter (grade 2C).
Patients with PAAs require a rigorous surveillance protocol with DUS because the risk of complications increases with time.49,50 Dawson et al20 observed in a set

Journal of Vascular Surgery

Farber et al

119S

Volume 75, Number 1S

of 42 patients with asymptomatic PAAs that 24% had
developed complications within 1 year and 68% had
developed complications within 5 years. In another
report, Dawson et al1 reported complications had
occurred at a mean 18 months, and the amputation
rate for patients with complications was 25%. Even
aneurysms <20 mm in diameter have been shown to
cause complications, as shown by Ascher et al.30 PAAs,
like most aneurysms, can result in complications that
result in limb loss if a high index of suspicion is not
used with serial surveillance.
Independent peer review and oversight has been provided by members of the Society for Vascular Surgery
Document Oversight Committee (Ruth Bush, chair, Marc
Schermerhorn, vice-chair, Keith Calligaro, Yazan Duwayri,
Raul Guzman, Gregory Landry, Mahmoud Malas, Katherine McGinigle, J. Sheppard Mondy, John Rectenwald, William Robinson, Britt Tonnessen, and Greg Westin).

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
Conception and design: AF
Analysis and interpretation: AF, NA, EA, LD, ME, PG, MH,
JJ, EK, RP, JS, MM
Data collection: Not applicable
Writing the article: AF, NA, EA, LD, ME, PG, MH, JJ, EK, RP,
JS
Critical revision of the article: AF, NA, EA, LD, ME, PG, MH,
JJ, EK, RP, JS, MM
Final approval of the article: AF, NA, EA, LD, ME, PG, MH,
JJ, EK, RP, JS, MM
Statistical analysis: Not applicable
Obtained funding: Not applicable
Overall responsibility: AF

REFERENCES
1. Dawson I, Sie RB, van Bockel JH. Atherosclerotic popliteal aneurysm.
Br J Surg 1997;84:293-9.
2. Tsilimparis N, Dayama A, Ricotta JJ II. Open and endovascular repair
of popliteal artery aneurysms: tabular review of the literature. Ann
Vasc Surg 2013;27:259-65.
3. Whitehouse WM Jr, Wakeﬁeld TW, Graham LM, Kazmers A,
Zelenock GB, Cronenwett JL, et al. Limb-threatening potential of
arteriosclerotic popliteal artery aneurysms. Surgery 1983;93:694-9.
4. Valentine RJ, Wind GG. Popliteal artery. In: Anatomic Exposures in
Vascular Surgery. Philadelphia PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins;
2003. p. 433-66.
5. Wolf YG, Kobzantsev Z, Zelmanovich L. Size of normal and aneurysmal popliteal arteries: a duplex ultrasound study. J Vasc Surg
2006;43:488-92.
6. Sandgren T, Sonesson B, Ahlgren AR, Lanne T. Factors predicting the
diameter of the popliteal artery in healthy humans. J Vasc Surg
1998;28:284-9.
7. Johnston KW, Rutherford RB, Tilson MD, Shah DM, Hollier L,
Stanley JC. Suggested standards for reporting on arterial aneurysms.
Subcommittee on Reporting Standards for Arterial Aneurysms, Ad
Hoc Committee on Reporting Standards, Society for Vascular Surgery and North American Chapter, International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery. J Vasc Surg 1991;13:452-8.
8. Macchi C, Gulisano M, Giannelli F, Catini C, Pacini P, Brizzi E. The
calibers of the common femoral, popliteal, and posterior tibialis arteries: a statistical investigation in 100 healthy subjects by color
Doppler ultrasonography. Ital J Anat Embryol 1994;99:157-69.

9. Szilagyi DE, Schwartz RL, Reddy DJ. Popliteal arterial aneurysms: their natural history and management. Arch Surg
1981;116:724-8.
10. Trickett JP, Scott RA, Tilney HS. Screening and management of
asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms. J Med Screen 2002;9:92-3.
11. Hamish M, Lockwood A, Cosgrove C, Walker AJ, Wilkins D, Ashley S.
Management of popliteal artery aneurysms. ANZ J Surg 2006;76:912-5.
12. Magee R, Quigley F, McCann M, Buttner P, Golledge J. Growth and
risk factors for expansion of dilated popliteal arteries. Eur J Vasc
Endovasc Surg 2010;39:606-11.
13. Pittathankal AA, Dattani R, Magee TR, Galland RB. Expansion rates of
asymptomatic popliteal artery aneurysms. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2004;27:382-4.
14. Stiegler H, Mendler G, Baumann G. Prospective study of 36 patients
with 46 popliteal artery aneurysms with non-surgical treatment. Vasa
2002;31:43-6.
15. Vermilion BD, Kimmins SA, Pace WG, Evans WE. A review of one
hundred forty-seven popliteal aneurysms with long-term follow-up.
Surgery 1981;90:1009-14.
16. Cousins RS, Dexter DJ, Ahanchi SS, Cain BC, Powell OM,
Ongstad SB, et al. Determining patient risk factors associated with
accelerated growth of popliteal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg
2018;67:838-47.
17. Lowell RC, Gloviczki P, Hallett JW Jr, Naessens JM, Maus TP,
Cherry KJ Jr, et al. Popliteal artery aneurysms: the risk of nonoperative management. Ann Vasc Surg 1994;8:14-23.
18. Vrijenhoek JE, Mackaay AJ, Moll FL. Small popliteal artery aneurysms:
important clinical consequences and contralateral survey in daily
vascular surgery practice. Ann Vasc Surg 2013;27:454-8.
19. Cross JE, Galland RB, Hingorani A, Ascher E. Nonoperative versus
surgical management of small (less than 3 cm), asymptomatic
popliteal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2011;53:1145-8.
20. Dawson I, Sie R, van Baalen JM, van Bockel JH. Asymptomatic
popliteal aneurysm: elective operation versus conservative follow-up.
Br J Surg 1994;81:1504-7.
21. Dzieciuchowicz L, Lukaszuk M, Figiel J, Klimczak K, Krasinski Z,
Majewski W. Factors inﬂuencing the clinical course of popliteal artery
aneurysm. Med Sci Monit 2009;15:CR231-5.
22. Martelli E, Ippoliti A, Ventoruzzo G, De Vivo G, Ascoli Marchetti A,
Pistolese GR. Popliteal artery aneurysms: factors associated with
thromboembolism and graft failure. Int Angiol 2004;23:54-65.
23. Kropman RH, Schrijver AM, Kelder JC, Moll FL, de Vries JP. Clinical
outcome of acute leg ischaemia due to thrombosed popliteal artery
aneurysm: systematic review of 895 cases. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg
2010;39:452-7.
24. Diwan A, Sarkar R, Stanley JC, Zelenock GB, Wakeﬁeld TW. Incidence
of femoral and popliteal artery aneurysms in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2000;31:863-9.
25. MacGowan SW, Saif MF, O’Neill G, Fitzsimons P, Bouchier-Hayes D.
Ultrasound examination in the diagnosis of popliteal artery aneurysms. Br J Surg 1985;72:528-9.
26. Chaikof EL, Dalman RL, Eskandari MK, Jackson BM, Lee WA,
Mansour MA, et al. The Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines on the care of patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
J Vasc Surg 2018;67:2-77.e2.
27. Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, Barrett C, Barshes NR, Corriere MA,
Drachman DE, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC guideline on the management of
patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease: executive
summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association task force on clinical practice guidelines. Circulation 2017;135:e686-725.
28. Murad MH, Montori VM, Sidawy AN, Ascher E, Meissner MH,
Chaikof EL, et al. Guideline methodology of the Society for Vascular
Surgery including the experience with the GRADE framework. J Vasc
Surg 2011;53:1375-80.
29. Galland RB, Magee TR. Popliteal aneurysms: distortion and size
related to symptoms. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;30:534-8.
30. Ascher E, Markevich N, Schutzer RW, Kallakuri S, Jacob T,
Hingorani AP. Small popliteal artery aneurysms: are they clinically
signiﬁcant? J Vasc Surg 2003;37:755-60.
31. Garg K, Rockman CB, Kim BJ, Jacobowitz GR, Maldonado TS,
Adelman MA, et al. Outcome of endovascular repair of popliteal artery aneurysm using the Viabahn endoprosthesis. J Vasc Surg
2012;55:1647-53.

120S

Farber et al

Journal of Vascular Surgery
January Supplement 2022

32. Serrano Hernando FJ, Martinez Lopez I, Hernandez Mateo MM,
Hernando Rydings M, Sanchez Hervas L, Rial Horcajo R, et al. Comparison of popliteal artery aneurysm therapies. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:
655-61.
33. Beuschel B, Nayfeh T, Kunbaz A, Haddad A, Alzuabi M, Vindhyal S,
et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of treatment and natural history of popliteal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg, https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jvs.2021.05.0232021. Accessed March 1, 2021.
34. Eslami MH, Rybin D, Doros G, Farber A. Open repair of asymptomatic
popliteal artery aneurysm is associated with better outcomes than
endovascular repair. J Vasc Surg 2015;61:663-9.
35. Galinanes EL, Dombrovskiy VY, Graham AM, Vogel TR. Endovascular
versus open repair of popliteal artery aneurysms: outcomes in the US
Medicare population. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2013;47:267-73.
36. Pulli R, Dorigo W, Fargion A, Pratesi G, Innocenti AA, Angiletta D, et al.
Comparison of early and midterm results of open and endovascular
treatment of popliteal artery aneurysms. Ann Vasc Surg 2012;26:
809-18.
37. Pulli R, Dorigo W, Castelli P, Dorrucci V, Ferilli F, De Blasis G, et al.
A multicentric experience with open surgical repair and endovascular exclusion of popliteal artery aneurysms. Eur J Vasc Endovasc
Surg 2013;45:357-63.
38. Leake AE, Segal MA, Chaer RA, Eslami MH, Al-Khoury G,
Makaroun MS, et al. Meta-analysis of open and endovascular repair of
popliteal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2017;65:246-56.e2.
39. Antonello M, Frigatti P, Battocchio P, Lepidi S, Cognolato D,
Dall’Antonia A, et al. Open repair versus endovascular treatment for
asymptomatic popliteal artery aneurysm: results of a prospective
randomized study. J Vasc Surg 2005;42:185-93.
40. Marty B, Wicky S, Ris HB, Mueller X, Fischer A, Hayoz D, et al. Success
of thrombolysis as a predictor of outcome in acute thrombosis of
popliteal aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2002;35:487-93.
41. Pulli R, Dorigo W, Troisi N, Innocenti AA, Pratesi G, Azas L, et al. Surgical management of popliteal artery aneurysms: which factors
affect outcomes? J Vasc Surg 2006;43:481-7.
42. Dorigo W, Pulli R, Turini F, Pratesi G, Credi G, Innocenti AA, et al.
Acute leg ischaemia from thrombosed popliteal artery aneurysms:
role of preoperative thrombolysis. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2002;23:
251-4.
43. Dorigo W, Fargion A, Masciello F, Piffaretti G, Pratesi G, Giacomelli E,
et al. A matched case-control study on open and endovascular
treatment of popliteal artery aneurysms. Scand J Surg 2018;107:
236-43.
44. Huang Y, Gloviczki P, Noel AA, Sullivan TM, Kalra M, Gullerud RE, et al.
Early complications and long-term outcome after open surgical
treatment of popliteal artery aneurysms: is exclusion with saphenous
vein bypass still the gold standard? J Vasc Surg 2007;45:706-13; discussion: 713-5.
45. Zierler RE, Jordan WD, Lal BK, Mussa F, Leers S, Fulton J, et al. The
Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines on follow-up after
vascular surgery arterial procedures. J Vasc Surg 2018;68:256-84.
46. Stone PA, Armstrong PA, Bandyk DF, Keeling WB, Flaherty SK,
Shames ML, et al. The value of duplex surveillance after open and
endovascular popliteal aneurysm repair. J Vasc Surg 2005;41:936-41.
47. Piazza M, Menegolo M, Ferrari A, Bonvini S, Ricotta JJ, Frigatti P, et al.
Long-term outcomes and sac volume shrinkage after endovascular
popliteal artery aneurysm repair. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2014;48:
161-8.
48. Davies RS, Wall M, Rai S, Simms MH, Vohra RK, Bradbury AW, et al.
Long-term results of surgical repair of popliteal artery aneurysm. Eur
J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2007;34:714-8.
49. Schröder A, Gohlke J, Gross-Fengels W, Horstmann R. [Popliteal
aneurysmsdsurgical management versus conservative procedure].
Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd 1996;113:857-63.

50. Farina C, Cavallaro A, Schultz RD, Feldhaus RJ, di Marzo L. Popliteal
aneurysms. Surg Gynecol Obstet 1989;169:7-13.
51. Winterborn RJ, Amin I, Lyratzopoulos G, Walker N, Varty K,
Campbell WB. Preferences for endovascular (EVAR) or open surgical
repair among patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms under
surveillance. J Vasc Surg 2009;49:576-81.e3.
52. Hogendoorn W, Schlosser FJ, Moll FL, Muhs BE, Hunink MG,
Sumpio BE. Decision analysis model of open repair versus endovascular treatment in patients with asymptomatic popliteal artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2014;59:651-62.
53. Lawrence PF, Lorenzo-Rivero S, Lyon JL. The incidence of iliac,
femoral, and popliteal artery aneurysms in hospitalized patients.
J Vasc Surg 1995;22:409-15; discussion: 415-6.
54. Claridge M, Hobbs S, Quick C, Adam D, Bradbury A, Wilmink T.
Screening for popliteal aneurysms should not be a routine part of a
community-based aneurysm screening program. Vasc Health Risk
Manag 2006;2:189-91.
55. Sandgren T, Sonesson B, Ryden A, Länne T. Arterial dimensions in the
lower extremities of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysmsdno indications of a generalized dilating diathesis. J Vasc Surg 2001;34:1079-84.
56. Tuveson V, Löfdahl HE, Hultgren R. Patients with abdominal aortic
aneurysm have a high prevalence of popliteal artery aneurysms. Vasc
Med 2016;21:369-75.
57. Morris-Stiff G, Haynes M, Ogunbiyi S, Townsend E, Shetty S,
Winter RK, et al. Is assessment of popliteal artery diameter in patients undergoing screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms a
worthwhile procedure. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg 2005;30:71-4.
58. Moreira CC, Leung AD, Farber A, Rybin D, Doros G, Siracuse JJ, et al.
Alternative conduit for infrageniculate bypass in patients with critical
limb ischemia. J Vasc Surg 2016;64:131-9.e1.
59. Avgerinos ED, Sachdev U, Naddaf A, Doucet DR, Mohapatra A,
Leers SA, et al. Autologous alternative veins may not provide better
outcomes than prosthetic conduits for below-knee bypass when
great saphenous vein is unavailable. J Vasc Surg 2015;62:385-91.
60. Beseth BD, Moore WS. The posterior approach for repair of popliteal
artery aneurysms. J Vasc Surg 2006;43:940-4; discussion: 944-5.
61. Zaghloul MS, Andraska EA, Leake A, Chaer R, Avgerinos ED, Hager ES,
et al. Poor runoff and distal coverage below the knee are associated
with poor long-term outcomes following endovascular popliteal
aneurysm repair. J Vasc Surg, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvs.2020.12.062.
Accessed March 1, 2021.
62. Mousa A, Faries PL, Bernheim J, Dayal R, DeRubertis B, Hollenbeck S,
et al. Rupture of excluded popliteal artery aneurysm: implications for
type II endoleaksda case report. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2004;38:575-8.
63. Kirkpatrick UJ, McWilliams RG, Martin J, Brennan JA, GillingSmith GL, Harris PL. Late complications after ligation and bypass for
popliteal aneurysm. Br J Surg 2004;91:174-7.
64. Bush RL, Bianco CC, Lin PH, Lumsden AB. Endovascular treatment of
an endoleak causing rupture of a previously bypassed popliteal
aneurysm: a case report. Vasc Endovasc Surg 2004;38:257-61.
65. Battey PM, Skardasis GM, McKinnon WM. Rupture of a previously
bypassed popliteal aneurysm: a case report. J Vasc Surg 1987;5:874-5.
66. Ambler GK, Twine CP. Graft type for femoro-popliteal bypass surgery.
Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2018;2:CD001487.
67. Ullery BW, Tran K, Itoga N, Casey K, Dalman RL, Lee JT. Safety and
efﬁcacy of antiplatelet/anticoagulation regimens after Viabahn stent
graft treatment for femoropopliteal occlusive disease. J Vasc Surg
2015;61:1479-88.
68. Zavgorodnyaya D, Knight TB, Daley MJ, Teixeira PG. Antithrombotic
therapy for postinterventional management of peripheral arterial
disease. Am J Health Syst Pharm 2020;77:269-76.

Submitted Apr 2, 2021; accepted Apr 3, 2021.


